Ijara Member of Parliament Sophia Abdinoor has won a top African female leadership award. The award, which was given by Women Advancement for Economic and Leadership Empowerment Foundation in Africa (Waele Africa), recognised strategic role the lawmaker played towards African women emancipation. The accolade dubbed 'Pride of Africa Women Award' was given in Namibia during a summit aimed at strengthening political understanding of women's role in conflict prevention, resolution and post-conflicts peace building. The summit also seeks to develop an overall analysis of women's traditional role in mediation and peace building in Africa. The selection was based on case studies undertaken within Unesco special project on women and cultural of peace in Africa. SOLIDARITY The forum also seeks to provide an avenue for exchange, confidence building and solidarity among African women promoters of peace. The ward was also given to top African leaders including former Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete among other African leaders. Mrs Abdinoor made history during the 2017 General Election when she beat four other candidates to win the Ijara parliamentary seat in a region highly regarded as patriarchal society. The MP is also founder of Womankind Kenya, a non-governmental organisation working in Northeastern region. The organisation fights for women’s education besides combating harmful cultural practices such as female Genital Mutilations (FGM). VULNERABLE GIRLS The organisation also runs Umulkher Girls School which offers education to orphans and vulnerable girls in the region. Girls who escape FGM are also accommodated in the institution.   Speaking from Namibia the MP said the continental award is a recognition to not only herself, but also for many mothers and grassroots women who toil daily to improve the well-being of the girls and women in the society. "This award is great recognition and motivation for all those women who contribute to women empowerment in terms of education and health among other sectors," she said. "On behalf of the people of Ijara and Kenya at large I wish thank the committee for recognising our efforts," she added.  