IN NEW YORK CITY A few weeks after Kenyan musical Tinga Tinga Tales premiered on Broadway, Kenyans continued to shine in New York, with running legend Martin Lel on Thursday evening inducted into the New York City Marathon’s Hall of Fame at a public ceremony on Central Park. Tinga Tinga Tales, Claudia Lloyd-produced musical, featuring, among others, singer-songwriter Eric Wainaina, premiered at the New Victory Theatre here last month, stamping Kenya’s growing authority in the performing arts at the world’s leading entertainment city. With Kenyan arts slowly gaining a foothold on the competitive global scene, the country’s athletics prowess has never been in doubt with Lel celebrated by race organisers, the New York Road Runners, earning the "Abebe Bikila Award" for dominating marathon running in the 2000s, winning here twice, in 2003 and 2007. He also won a hat-trick of London Marathon titles in 2005, 2007 and 2008. The Hall of Fame ceremony was a build-up towards Sunday’s TCS New York City Marathon where Kenya has lined up five athletes, namely defending champion Geoffrey Kamworor, last year’s London Marathon champion Daniel Wanjiru and two time Eindhoven Marathon winner Festus Talam in the men’s division with two-time winner here Mary Keitany lining up with London Marathon champion and Olympic track gold medallist Vivian Cheruiyot in the women’s race. Battling injury, and missing out of the 2009 and 2010 editions in the British capital, Lel soldiered on to make a comeback on the streets of London placing second in 2011 and 2012. He was inducted into the respected Hall of Fame alongside other top achievers at the "Big Apple" Deena Kastor (USA), Edith Wolf Hunkeler (Switzerland) and Allison Roe (New Zealand). Retiring TCS New York City Marathon race director, American Peter Ciaccia, was also recognised for his work with journalist and former runner Don Kardong receiving the George Hirsch Journalism Award for his outstanding contribution to athletics. "This is a great recognition for me and I’d like to thank the organisers for appreciating my contribution to the sport," said Lel, now a farmer and businessman in Eldoret. He singled out the 2003 New York City Marathon as the most memorable race of his career. "I was still fresh in marathon running and I remember breaking away from fellow Kenyans Rodgers Rop and Christopher Cheboiboich in the last three kilometres. It was an epic finish on Central Park," he told Nation Sport after accepting his induction. Then running under the Fila banner, Lel won the race in two hours, 10 minutes and 30 seconds with Rop coming in second in 2:11:11 and Cheboiboch, who served as a Member of the Elgeyo-Marakwet County Assembly in the last term, completing the podium places in 2:11:23. The 2003 race will also be remembered for a clean Kenyan sweep also in the women’s division through Margaret Okayo (2:22:31), Catherine Ndereba (2:23:03) and Lornah Kiplagat (2:23:43). Okayo’s winning time was an improvement on her own course record (2:24:21) at the time. After working with the New York Road Runners, organisers of Sunday’s race, for 18 years, Ciaccia was recognised for growing the race into the world’s biggest marathon. "Being inducted into the NYRR Hall of Fame that already has so many great contributors to the sport is truly an honour," Ciaccia said. "To be part of this year’s class that also includes Edith, Martin and Allison, all of whom have achieved so much, and to stand alongside Deena and Don as they are recognized for their contributions to the running community, is a highlight of my career." Kastor holds the American record in four events, including the marathon, and was seventh in her New York City Marathon in 2001, clocking 2:26:58. Hunkelar won the women’s wheelchair race here five times in 2004, 2005, 2007, 2008 and 2009, tying with Tatyana McFadden and Kurt Fearnley as athletes with most wins in this division. Roe won the 1981 Boston Marathon, shaving four minutes off the course record and beat favourite Grete Waitz to win the New York City Marathon the same year in 2:25:29, 13 seconds faster than the world record at the time set by Waitz the previous year.  