City Hall officers will soon be required to undergo regular integrity tests aimed at reining in corruption in the Nairobi government. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) recommended that the county subject its officials to the process to curb graft, especially in departments riddled with cases. EMPLOYMENTCLAUSE In a report titled Institutionalization of Ethics and Integrity and the Role of the Media, the state agency endorses regular tests for officers working in corruption-prone departments in the county. Mr Erick Munyao, the commission's acting assistant director of ethics and leadership, said the capital should have a clause in staff contract that deters the vice. The county has as least 1,300 employees. Mr Munyao also called for the risk assessment of operational areas, besides implementation of measures agreed upon, such as establishing an ethics and integrity department to develop, implement and enforce integrity and anti-corruption strategies. “Nairobi should develop a mechanism for holding heads of units responsible for corruption and unethical conduct in their units,” he said. PRAISE The acting director lauded the county for efforts against the vice, saying the EACC has recorded fewer complaints from the public. Mr Munyao also praised Nairobi leader for committing to elimination of corruption. He noted that under these circumstances, Governor Mike Sonko administration has achieved more development than former Governor Evans Kidero's. The commission has witnessed continued action against officials suspected to have engaged in corruption, he said. PUNISHMENTS A number of senior county officials have either been suspended or sacked by Mr Sonko on allegations of corruption, the county boss having vowed repeatedly to rid City Hall of cartels. A total of 40 City Hall staff, including the senior officials, have been punished this way since August 21, 2017, when Mr Sonko took over. Those suspended include Chief of Staff Brian Mugo, acting Chief Finance Officer Ekaya Alumasi, John Ojwang and acting Treasury head Stephen Mutua, all over accusations of engaging in graft. More than 30 staff in the procurement department have been suspended for the same reason.   MCAs claim some contracts expired and are yet to be renewed.