Kenya’s noisy neighbours Uganda Cranes on Saturday became the first country from the Council of East and Central Africa Football Associations (Cecafa) region to book a slot at the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations following a hard-fought 1-0 win over visiting Cape Verde in a Group "L" qualifier at a jam-packed Nelson Mandela Stadium in Kampala. Also qualifying on Saturday were Nigeria and Morocco while Libya scored eight goals to keep alive hopes of also featuring at the finals which will be held in Cameroon. Nigeria drew 1-1 with South Africa in Soweto, and Morocco went through after rivals Malawi lost 2-1 in the Comoros. Libya triumphed 8-1 in the Seychelles and host South Africa next March needing a win to accompany Nigeria from Group “E”. The Libyans just missed equalling the record away winning margin for a Cup of Nations qualifier held by Ghana, who won 9-1 in Niger 49 years ago. A total of eight nations have secured places at the 24-team finals with hosts Cameroon, Madagascar, Senegal, Egypt and Tunisia securing places before this weekend. KADDU ON TARGET Kampala City Council Authority (KCCA) forward Patrick Kaddu buried home a glancing header off Godfrey Walusimbi's pin-point cross 13 minutes before time to ensure Uganda secured their second successive slot in the African finals. KCCA youngster Allan Kyambadde, who replaced Egypt-based Isaac Muleme on 66 minutes, picked out Kaizer Chiefs left back Walusimbi on the far left and the former Gor Mahia man quickly swept in a delicious in-swinger that Kaddu headed to the far post to send thousands of jubilant Cranes fans, who had painted Namboole red and yellow, into rafters. Uganda Cranes, who ended a 38-year Afcon jinx by qualifying for last year’s finals in Gabon, have amassed an unassailable 13 points, eight ahead of second-placed Tanzania, with a game to go. Tanzania play Lesotho away on Sunday with victory assuring them of a second-place finish and qualification before their final group game against neighbours Uganda in March. Uganda, coached by French coach Sebastien Desabre, are yet to concede a goal in this qualification campaign. Kaddu’s first international goal on Saturday was Cranes seventh so far ín the campaign, coincidentally assuring them of their seventh appearance at the continental showpiece. Kenya’s Harambee Stars are on the brink of qualification leading Group “F” with seven points.   Cape Verde were much improved after the break.