Kenya Shujaa launch their title defence against local side Mwamba when this year’s safari Sevens get underway on Saturday the Rugby Football Union of East Africa grounds. Shujaa, who are chasing their ninth Cup success, will take on Mwamba - who have replaced Burkina Faso on Saturday at 11.50am before meeting Apache from United Kingdom at 2.50pm. Shujaa will then take on continental rivals Namibia in their last Pool “A” duel at 5.50pm. This year’s tournament will involve 12 teams drawn in three pool of four sides each. Kenya Morans have a tricky Pool “C” opener against neighbours Uganda Cranes at 10.44 am before facing former World Rugby Sevens Series core side Portugal at 2.06pm. Morans will next play Stanbic National Sevens Series champions Homeboyz in their last pool fixture at 4.44pm. World Rugby Sevens Series core team Spain, who finished 11th during the 2017/18 season, highlight Pool “B” that has the 2015 champions Samurai International, Red Wailers from South Africa and Emerging Uganda. Kenya head coach Paul “Pau” Murunga is confident that Shujaa and Morans will reach the final of the premier sevens event. Murunga said Shujaa would easily top Pool “A” unbeaten. “I am confident that we shall beat Namibia if they play the way they did at the continental event,” said Murunga. Namibia finished ninth in that event that attracted 12 teams while Kenya Shujaa lost 17-5 to Zimbabwe in the final held last month in Monastir, Tunisia. “I think Morans are in the toughest pool in the championship but they have an edge by virtue of their youthfulness,” said Murunga. “They are looking to break the ground to the main team and have everything to fight for.” At the same time, Safari Sevens tournament director Godwin Karuga disclosed yesterday at a press conference that Mwamba, who finished second at Stanbic National Sevens Series, had replaced Burkina Faso, who have withdrawn from the event. “We have resorted to a 12-team tournament owing to the low turnout,” said Karuga, who declared that they are ready to host the tournament that starts tomorrow with the Under-19 Girls at the RFUEA and Veterans tournament at Impala Sports Club. Sure 24, Hidden Talent, Emerging Nanyuki are in Pool “A” of the Under-19 Girls tournament. Pool “B” has Maono, St Teresa and Nairobi Combined while Huruma, Emerging Talent and Nanyuki Jackals make Pool “C”. Oiwqk, Nakuru and Community Rugby are in Pool “D”. Impala, Kenya Commercial Bank, Quins, Nondies, Les Garlous, Blak Blad, RU4, Mwamba and Mombasa will battle in the Veterans competition. Karuga also announced the closure of the Ngong Road between Ole Odumbe Road and Makindi Road staring Friday. Motorists from Adams Arcade will either turn to Ole Odume on to Riara Road or Joseph Kang’ethe Road on to Kibera Station Road. “The area between Telkom and Impala Club will be left for fans on foot and emergency services. No parking will be designated at these areas,” said Karuga. DRAW Pool A: Shujaa, Namibia, Apache, MwambaPool B: Spain, Samurai, Red Wailers, Emerging UgandaPool C: Portugal, Uganda, Morans, Homeboyz   The Union confirmed both teams will be under the tutelage of Kenya Sevens head coach Paul Murunga.