Opposition leader Raila Odinga has moved to quell a vicious power struggle among three officials of his party, the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM). Mr Odinga is said to be concerned about the flurry of contradictory letters exchanged among ODM National Chairman John Mbadi, Secretary General Edwin Sifuna and Executive Director Oduor Ong’wen. He has scheduled a meeting to address the matter. COUNTERACCUSATIONS The infighting concerns a decision to replace the party’s leadership in the Nairobi County Assembly. The three have accused each other of overstepping their mandates but Mr Mbadi maintains that he operated within his jurisdiction when he wrote to the assembly communicating leadership changes. He announced that the party had replaced Minority Leader Elias Otieno and Minority Whip Peter Imwatok with Kennedy Oyugi (Highrise) and Nicholas Okumu (Savanna) respectively. In a letter dated November 5, the Suba South member of Parliament (MP) stated that the changes he made stood and that his word overrode any other person's. “As previously reiterated, the decision made by the ODM party emanated from the request of the membership of Nairobi County Assembly, which was endorsed by the party after deliberations in compliance with the ODM constitution,” he said in the letter. However, just a day after he wrote to the county assembly, Mr Sifuna wrote another letter stating that the status quo remained. Mr Sifuna noted that he is the spokesman of the party, mandated by its constitution to issue all correspondence on its behalf, therefore the assembly should admit his letter on the matter. SECLUSION At the centre of the change of leadership, the Sunday Nation has learnt, is seclusion from powerful assembly committees. Members of county assembly (MCAs) who are deemed loyal to the current leadership are placed in over six lucrative committees while those who don’t toe the line get one or two committees at most. The MCAs also say they are displeased with Mr Otieno's leadership style, and accuse him of being arrogant and insensitive to their plight. A meeting that was scheduled for Thursday failed to take place after it was reported that the secretary-general and the executive director did not invite key members of the Central committee so the party leader could hear their side only. It emerged that core members of the Central Management Committee, that was to find solutions to the wrangles, were invited late for unknown reasons. While the Nairobi ODM MCAs got invitation letters on Monday, Mr Mbadi, Junet Mohammed (Suna West), Secretary of Political Affairs Opiyo Wandayi and Timothy Bosire (Treasurer) were invited by SMS on Thursday at 11am. By then, Mr Junet was in Migori attending to constituency matters, Mr Wandayi in South Africa on official duties and Mr Bosire out of town. Only the secretary-general, the executive director and ODM MCAs turned up for the meeting that was to take place at Graca hotel in Upper Hill. Noting that most senior members of the committee were not present, Mr Odinga, who arrived early, cancelled the meeting and scheduled it for next Tuesday. MEETING SOON It was claimed that some members of the committee were to be sidelined for supporting the idea for Mr Otieno's replacement. Both Mr Sifuna and Mr Ong’wen want the status quo at the assembly to remain for unknown reasons. “The two wanted to impose their skewed position on the party leader but their plot was foiled,” claimed a member of the committee who did not want to be named. “The party leader instructed the secretary-general to ensure that all members of the Central committee are present for the Tuesday meeting.” Reached for comment, Mr Mbadi confirmed that the meeting did not take place and that those present agreed that it should be scheduled for another day. “The meeting will happen soon. A date that will be communicated to the committee members,” he said.   Nairobi County assembly minority leader and whip replaced