When Fiolina left my palatial abode, I needed no calculator to know a few things. The first one was that for a few days, she would not be talking to me at all. Secondly, I knew that although she had left me, life in her place was quite hard, and while she wanted a quick return, she would pretend that she was comfortable. I also knew that her family, led by her brother Tocla, would see this as an opportunity to milk me dry. But I was prepared for that. FREE MAN Fiolina must have hoped that I would try to contact her, by calling her, texting her or sending someone to her. She was in for a rude shock. I did not do any of those things. Having taken the remaining children to my mother’s place (who did not bother me as long as I gave her money to take care of the battalion); I was literally a free man; something I have longed for ever since I got married. I could leave home when I wanted, return when and if I wanted, and sleep in any of the rooms. I wore what I wanted, drank what I fancied, and woke up when I felt like. The last one week has taught me that while marriage is a good thing, it is a prison of sorts, and there is a lot of freedom out there. It’s the freedom that I yearn for, something that makes me jealous of Sapphire, who is answerable to no one in life. Life was good. I would wake up after 9am, fix some quick tea and then leave for the market at around 11 am. After a few rounds of visiting friends and colleagues, I would go to Kasuku Hotel and Restaurant for a quick lunch, staying there for hours after lunch until 3pm, when I would go to Hitler’s for the rest of the day. At Hitler’s, Tocla would hover around me; hoping that I would speak to him, and talk to him about Fiolina, so that we could start negotiating her return. I totally ignored him, as I wanted him to let her know that I seemed okay. I knew that if I opened any discussion with him, he would set up a day when I would visit their home with wazees, and they would fine me heavily for having send away their daughter. By last Thursday, a good number of my clothes were dirty. I paid some girl to wash for me the clothes and utensils. Since the girl has just completed Class Eight, and I knew that I would be accused of sins that I had not committed, I did not allow her to come wash at my place, I left the clothes at the veranda, and she came to pick them, washed them by the river, only returning them once they were dry. At no time did we interact physically. THE PHONE CALL The previous day, Fiolina had tried calling me, but I ignored. She had also sent me SMSs asking me how I was doing but I also ignored them. I knew that news that Mary had washed my clothes would reach her the same day, and that evening she sent me an angry SMS: “You can’t weight for KCPE results before you marry Mary?” I did not respond. “If Amina nows that you will be rubbed job,” another SMS came in quick succession. By 8pm, she had written to me like six SMSs, which I did not respond to. On Friday morning, I woke up to a missed call from Fiolina. I decided to call her back, just to find out what was happening. She asked me if I had taken breakfast and I told her that I had had eggs. “And what do you think your wife and baby are eating?” she asked. “Mwanaume mgani huyu anakula na hajali bibi yake na mtoto?” I calmly told her that there was enough food in my house. “I never chased you from here, and I don’t know why you left,” I said. “So you want to pretend that you don’t know why I left?” she asked. “Utajua haujui,” she said, then disconnected the phone. She must have expected that I would call back. I did not. That Friday evening, she sent me a surprise SMS: “Deer Dre, I rarely miss you a lot. Wishing you a goodnight. Slip tight.” I responded curtly: ‘nyt’ “Kwani hujanimiss? However, I rarely love you,” she responded. I woke up yesterday to an SMS from her. “Good morning Deer? Wishing you a supper day? Sospeter anaimba tu baba.” Later, she called me to update me on what they had taken for breakfast. I could read through her very well. She clearly wanted to return but wanted me to request her to. I was enjoying my freedom so much I did not want her back just yet. FORGIVENESS I was therefore not surprised when she sent me another SMS at noon asking for boda boda fare so that they could return, I did not respond to her. I was at Kizito’s at that time. Kizito is a deputy at a neighbouring school and he had invited teachers for lunch at his place. We left Kizito’s place at about 3pm and went to Hitler’s. Tocla came to me and told me that they had forgiven me for mistreating Fiolina. “Tumeamua siste arudi uwache kuumia vile unaumia,” he said, and added that I should thank him for the role he had played to have me forgiven by the family. “Nimekutetea sana fanya kitu donga.” I politely told him that I had no money. At around 5pm, Nyayo arrived at Hitler’s. He came to tell me that he needed payment for having ferried Fiolina and Sospeter back. “You need to pay me for two trips since I had to go back to carry bananas, potatoes, maize and other foodstuffs.” I told him I was not aware of the trip and would not pay, even though the motorcycle was mine. In the meantime, I planned how I would go back home late, speak to no one, and go straight to bed. Fiolina must learnt that she was the one on the wrong, and must apologise to me. I arrived at home at around 8pm. Sospeter was glad to see me and kept calling me baba. Ugali and chicken (my favourite meal) had been prepared and I enjoyed the sumptuous meal; followed by a warm bath, something I had missed for long. Although I had planned to speak to no one; for obvious reasons, we slept late. Very late. And I can’t believe it, but I asked for forgiveness from Fiolina!   A few weeks ago she organised mock exams