The Nation Media Group (NMG) has landed four nominations in the prestigious 2018 African Digital Media Awards. The awards are organised by the World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers WAN-IFRA. LIT360 In the shortlist released on Monday, Nairobi News will go head to head with the Nation's sports section in the Best in Lifestyle, Sports, Entertainment Website or Mobile Service category. Lit360— NMG’s show that features interviews from local and international celebrities, bands, actors, fashion designers— has been shortlisted for the Best in Social Media Engagement award. The Airtel Case Study, which was run by Nation Media Group, has been shortlisted for the Best Digital Marketing Campaign. "We've been excited to see how the African Digital Media Awards have developed over the last 3 years,” said Nick Tjaardstra, Director Europe & Africa, WAN-IFRA. “The quality has always been high — with some going on to beat all competition to a World Award. Fast forward to 2018 and we have a really good mix of grass roots startups as well as big players, and a superb jury.” The awards ceremony will be held at Capital on the Park Hotel in Sandton, Johannesburg, on November 23, 2018. Media organisations from six different countries made the shortlist and this year’s awards include three new categories— Best Reader Revenue Initiative, Best Branded Content Project, Best Digital News Startup. In 2017, NMG's two products, Newsplex and My Network, beat entries from across Africa to win top honours in Frankfurt, Germany. Other NMG assets that were celebrated at the awards were KenyaBuzz, which was a runner –up in the Lifestyle, Sports or Entertainment Website category, Nation News App (runner-up, News Mobile Service), Nation Messenger Bot (runner-up, Innovation/New Product) and Business Daily Relaunch (runner-up, Digital Advertising Campaign). Winners of the African Digital Media Awards are automatically entered into the World Digital Media Awards competition. Here are this year's finalists: Best in Lifestyle, Sports, Entertainment Website or Mobile Service Nairobi News Website, Nation Media Group - Kenya Daily Nation Sports Section, Nation Media Group - Kenya Best in Social Media Engagement LIT360, Nation Media Group - Kenya Women's Month #WeRemember, Independent Media Hashtag Our Stories, South Africa Media Innovation Program Anatomy of a killing, BBC Best Digital Marketing Campaign Connecting South Africans, Independent Media Airtel Case Study, Nation Media Group – Kenya Best News Website or Mobile Service Daily Kick - Soccer. News. Live Scoring, 24.com Daily Maverick, South Africa Media Innovation Program MAPARCHIVES.MA, Moroccan News Agency Best Use of Online Video (including VR) Mapping the Murder of Hannah Cornelius, Tiso Blackstar Group (Pty) Ltd Hashtag Our Stories, South Africa Media Innovation Program Ethiopian priest's journey, BBC Best Data Visualisation Osun Elections in Nigeria, BBC Kids in toxic stress, Media Trust (Daily Trust) - Nigeria Digest - Economic Plans, Digest Best Reader Revenue Initiative Times Select, Tiso Blackstar Group (Pty) Ltd Netwerk24's Lifestyle migration, 24.com Maverick Insider, South Africa Media Innovation Program Best Branded Content Project BRICS Media Forum South Africa, Independent Media News24 Mzansi, through her eyes, 24.com Just Delicious, Media24 Best Digital News Start-up Business Insider South Africa, 24.com Hashtag Our Stories, South Africa Media Innovation Program Daily Kick - Soccer. News. Live Scoring, 24.com Best Innovation to Engage Youth Audiences Children's Radio Foundation, South Africa Media Innovation Program News24 Mandela100, 24.com Hekayat Gameela (Gameela stories), medinaportal – Egypt   