After a successful 2018 Super Eight tournament in Nairobi, Extreme Sports Limited is now looking forward to a bigger and better league next year as they plan to bring on board various companies to support their long-term programmes. The professional sports management company, which has successfully run grass-roots football tournaments for the last 14 years — including the Super Eight leagues in Nairobi and Mombasa — is now calling on the corporate bodies to support their initiative to enable them cater for various administrative costs including match officials allowances to ensure smooth running of matches. While donating football kits to Nation Football Club in Nairobi on Wednesday , Extreme Sports chief executive officer Hussein Mohammed said his vision, if supported by all stakeholders, will give employment to 2,000 youths across the country. “We have decided to support Nation Media Group football teams because the media house has been consistent in both highlighting our matches and also because Nation FC has been quite consistent this year. Mohammed said Extreme Sports will also further support the developing of local sports content for broadcasting. "We have always run our tournaments to improve grass-roots talent and not for recognition,” he said. “For over 14 years we have established ourselves as a reputable institution that is formed on integrity and accountability; and most co-operate bodies look for these qualities in partnership. Our aim is to build and nurture talent amongst the youths; keep them positively engaged and out of crime, transform sports into a commercially viable industry and to offer employment through sports.” The two sets of playing kit and two footballs will be used by Nation FC's recently-formed Kisumu regional office for training matches. Two weeks ago, Extreme Sports Limited and betting company Betika entered into a partnership in which Brazilian football legend Ronaldinho Gaucho graced the Super Eight Champions League finals won by Jericho All Stars at Camp Toyoyo grounds, Nairobi. This season, Nation FC won the StarTimes Inter Media “World Cup” in Nairobi and are currently second in the Nairobi Left Foot Corporate League’s fifth division having lost only one match from 14 outings, gaining promotion into the fourth division next year. Nation FC Mombasa finished fifth in the Coast edition of the league.   Nation FC Mombasa finished fifth in the Coast edition of the league.