Migori Governor Okoth Obado has asked Christians across the country to pray for him, saying he feels as if he is walking through a fire. Obado, who made the request on Saturday as Deputy President William Ruto toured the county, further said it is as if he was thrown inside a crocodile's mouth. FREEDOM The governor spent weeks in Industrial Area Remand Prison in Nairobi County, following his arrest over the murder of his girlfriend Sharon Otieno. Ms Otieno, a student of Rongo University, was seven months pregnant with his child when she was brutally murdered on September 3. Other suspects in the case are Mr Obado's aides Michael Oyamo and Casper Obiero and one Grado Kithine Ocholla. Mr Obado was freed on a Sh5 million cash bail. At Nyabururu Catholic Church during a funds drive, Mr Obado said the prayers will help set him free. “If you pray for me, I will get out of the crocodile’s mouth,” he said to laughter. BAIL CONDITIONS Mr Obado was barred by the court from setting foot in Homa Bay County as part of the stringent conditions for his bail. This is to ensure he does not interfere with witnesses especially in Homa Bay, which was the home of Ms Otieno. “He shall not go anywhere within 20 kilometres of the Homa Bay boundary from all sides of the county,” ordered High Court Judge Jessie Lesiit. The church is near Oyugis in Homa Bay. Justice Lesiit warned that if the governor disregards the conditions, he will return to the prison. When the judge issued the bail orders on the governor, she asked the governor, “Do you know where the boundary is?" Mr Obado answered in the affirmative and agreed to a strict “county arrest”, which was, after all, far better than the remand prison he had been in since September 21. He was also warned against intimidating the parents, siblings and other relatives of the victim. “He shall refrain from mentioning or discussing the deceased or this case in any gatherings or political meetings, whether public or private,” the judge added. POLITICAL UNION Speaking earlier on in Kuria, Governor Obado hinted at a political union with the deputy president (DP). “I would like you to condemn this so-called crocodile, which some people want to swallow me. Let us not allow this crocodile to eat us up. I am ready to work with the DP now and in future," he said. Mr Obado further said that nowhere in the Bible has he read that River Jordan is full of crocodiles. “Either the Joshua taking you to the river infested with crocodiles is fake or river Jordan itself is fake,” he told a gathering. Opposition leader Raila Odinga often speaks of crocodiles when talking of his promise to take Kenyans to the 'promised land' or ' Canaan'. Mr Odinga says they encountered crocodiles in River Jordan so it was necessary for him to build bridges with President Uhuru Kenyatta. He has been criticised by people including the DP and Majority Leader Aden Duale (Garissa Town). On November 9, Mr Ruto said that translating the Bible would clear the air on whether there were crocodiles in River Jordan. Mr Duale said, "Our brothers from the other side, let us stand together. Don't take us back with these crocodile stories. This crocodiles that you remind us of every day must stop. There are no crocodiles among Kenyans."   Police say they have extended the search to Uganda and Tanzania.