Second seeded Sneha Kotecha is the only surviving Kenya in the second leg of the ITF East Africa Junior Circuit 18 and Under at the Nairobi Club. Kotecha edged out Suzaine Pretorius from South Africa in straight sets of 6-2, 7-5 to storm the quarterfinals of the girls competition on Wednesday. Kotecha, who is line for her fourth ITF East Africa Junior Circuit 18 and Under title, will now meet the winner between eighth seeded Narindra Ranaivo (Madagascar) and Daliyah Hamoud of Finland in the quarterfinals due for Thursday. Kotecha withstood a three-set battle of nerves to beat South Africa’s Laura Van Der Merwe and complete a hat-trick of victories in the junior event on Saturday at the same venue. Top seeded Aisha Niyonkuru from Burundi will face Italian Sofia Pizzoni in the quarterfinals. Niyonkuru glided past Mekides Adane from Ethiopia in straight sets of 6-1, 6-2 to set up Pizzoni, who stunned sixth seeded Iranian Meshkatolzahra Safi 6-1, 6-2. Seventh seeded Mialy Naranivo from Madagascar will clash with Indian Vineetha Mummadi in the other girls' quarterfinal on Thursday. Mialy tossed out Sophia Wurm from Austria 4-6, 6-1, 6-3, while Mummadi eased past Chyara ONia Seke of Belgium 6-2, 6-4. The only surviving Kenyan boy, fourth seed Albert Njogu was hounded out in the third round by unseeded Mihaly Deli of Hungary in 6-2, 7-6(5) sets on Wednesday. Ngoju, who reached the final of the first leg of the similar event on Saturday at the same venue, had dismissed Alexander Gammariello from Italy in straight sets of 6-4, 6-4. Njogu lost to Rostislav Galfinger from Kazakhstan 3-6, 6-4 and 3-6 in boys’ first leg final played at the same venue on Saturday. Deli is now set to face Galfinger in the quarterfinals on Thursday. Galfinger, who is seeded fifth, beat Maxime Seimpere from France 6-2, 6-3. Top seeded Abdoul Shakur Kabura beat Z. Almashev from Kazakhstan 6-2, 6-2 to set up a quarterfinal duel with Hungarian Balint Dobak. Doba beat Max Flaherity from Austria 6-2, 6-0. Third seeded Peter Sally from Hungary stopped Denzel Seetso of Botswana 6-2, 6-2 and will take on Thijmen Loof of the Netherlands in the quarters. Loof beat Nikhil Niranjan from USA 7-5, 6-1. Second seeded Iranian Sina Moghimi faces sixth seeded Dragos Popeanga of Romania in the other quarterfinal duel. Popeanga was too smart for Emin Keskin of the Netherlands wining 7-6(4), 6-3, while Moghimi battled to silence Romanian Taras Pakharenko 5-7, 6-3, 7-5.   Kenya's fourth seed will meet Mihaly Deli from Hungary on Wednesday afternoon.