AFC Leopards 2018/2019 SportPesa Premier League (SPL) hopes rests on the shoulders of Zimbabwean striker Michelle Katsvairo and Rwandese international goalkeeper Eric Ndayishimiye, the club’s coach Nikola Kavazovic has revealed. Katsvairo, who has been at Tanzanian side Singida United on loan from South African giants Kaizer Chiefs, chalked 90 minutes in the team’s one-all draw against second tier outfit Wazito in a preseason friendly match played at Camp Toyoyo grounds today. Ndayishimiye watched the game from the sidelines after jetting into the country earlier in the day. “He (Katsvairo) satisfied me in the 90 minutes, he will get the contract,” the Serbian tactician said. “We’ve more signings but it remains an internal club secret. Some players who were there last season and are not in this team now are not in my plans,” the 43-year-old coach, who replaced Argentine Rodolfo Zapata this month, added. Veteran forward Ezekiel Odera, who has been missing from the team's training sessions, was the notable absentee. “Some younger players will get the chance. I must improve this group of players to adapt to my special demands and mode of play," he offered. Ghanaian Prince forward Prince Arkoh, striker Ray Omondi, defender Marcus Abwao and midfielder Clyde Senaji were offloaded at the end of the season while the 13-time SPL champions lost Kenya Under-23 international defender Michael Kibwage to promoted Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB). Leopards, who open the season against SportPesa Shield winners Kariobangi Sharks on December 8 in Machakos, have also promoted striker Clark Achuka from their youth team. The youth side, which features in the fifth tier, will be handled by Nikola’s assistant coach, Serbian Marko Vasiljevic alongside club legend Boniface Ambani. “We have decided to focus on our youth team and I will be bringing in two or three players from the youth team every day to train with the seniors so as to get experience,” he concluded.   This was Wazito's second build up match.