The first two Kenya Cup weekends have served fans with drama, upsets and some scintillating action. Former Kenya Cup giants Nondescript opened their 2018/2019 season with two shock wins over Menengai Cream Homeboyz and defending champions KCB. Down in Nakuru, new boys Menengai Oilers shocked Kenya Harlequin 14-8 to record their first ever Kenya Cup win. Are we about to experience a season full of twists and turns where no one is safe? At the beginning of the season, pundits were backing KCB to go through the round robin phase of the league unscathed. The Bankers had just came back from a 10-day intensive training camp in Cape Town and they were most conditioned of all sides, at least by the videos that were shared on social media by their staff. They successfully defended Impala Floodlit tournament even if they had to dig deep to see off a stubborn Stanbic Mwamba and Impala Saracens. But that’s the mark of a champion, right? They were wrong! No one saw this coming. In their first match of the season they were badly exposed by a young and hungry Menengai Oilers pack that put their scrums and line outs under pressure. Never have KCB conceded so many scrum penalties like they did against the debutants. In fact had Oilers elected to kick for posts, they would have emerged victors. They just needed an experienced leader with a cool head to make those decisions. What Oilers exposed, Nondies exploited with ruthless efficiency. The Bankers always come out badly against a team that plays a tight game and have superior forwards. They couldn’t have found a tougher opponent than Red Lions. These are masters of this type of game and they duly bullied KCB into submission on Saturday afternoon. With those two results, Nondies have shed their tag of perennial participants to contenders. Or is too early to call? Away from all the drama in Nairobi, Kabras Sugar RFC looks to have overcome the exit of their key players to register tow bonus point wins. The Sugar Millers saw off Mean Machime 41-0 and followed it with a 37-10 win over Blak Blad. Kabras lost Ivan Kirabo to Uganda Kobs, Dominic Osino and Aluda Beda to Quins while Nick Barasa transfer saga still remains unsolved. The Henley Du Plessis-coached team still look formidable but they face a sterner test in Match Day three when they travel to Nakuru to face a stuttering Top Fry Nakuru who lost to Impala at home. At the bottom end of the log, Stanbic Mwamba sits precariously above relegation zone and badly need a win to boost their confidence and campaign. They will be hoping to inflict more pain to KCB this weekend when they visit The Den. My early predictions of the season: Kabras Sugar will finish on top of the league, Quins will miss out on the play offs Blak Blad will be relegated in 2019. What’s your prediction? Follow me on Twitter @kollonabiswa and let's engage.  