Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company (Muwasco) Managing Director Daniel Ng’ang’a has been grilled by criminal investigations officers for allegedly forging the signature of the County Executive Member for Water with the intention to obtain a licence from Water Services Regulation Board (Wasreb). According to the County Criminal Investigations Officer Julius Rutere, they summoned the MD after Mr Macharia reported that his signature had been forged by the water firm which wanted to renew its licence with Wasreb after it expired. “We summoned Mr Ng’ang’a on Tuesday and he recorded a statement and investigations are at an advanced stage. By Monday next week we shall be through,” Mr Rutere told the Nation. RECORDED STATEMENT He said the CEC claimed to have been alerted by Wasreb of the “fake letter” after they called him to confirm whether the approval letter emanated from his office, prompting him to record a statement under OB NO 26/6/11/2018 at Murang’a Police Station. However, the county investigations boss said Mr Ng’ang’a maintained that he took the letter to the CEC for approval. But Mr Macharia said he did not sign letter let alone receive one from the water firm. He told the Nation that he has since written to Wasreb halting the process of the renewal of the licence. DISOWNED LETTER “I disown that letter and subsequently dissent Murang’a County government’s approval for the licencing of Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company and has requested Wasreb to halt the licencing process pending the approval of the county government,” he said. He urged the police to speed up investigations so as to arrest and charge the culprits. But Mr Ng’ang’a maintained that he sent the letter to Mr Macharia for approval and called for speedy investigations to establish the truth. "I did not forge the letter and I call upon the police to conduct speedy investigations to establish the truth," he said. Muwasco and the county government have been embroiled in tug of war over the management of the water firm following the replacement of tycoon Peter Munga with Prof Joseph Kimura as the chairman.   Court declines to issue conservatory orders against Wa Iria as ruling set for November 1.