The High Court has directed a defamation case pitting retired president Daniel Moi’s press secretary Lee Njiru and personal secretary John Lokorio to proceed to full hearing in January 2019. Justice Joel Ngugi directed the two parties to file crucial documents within 14 days before the hearing kicks off. Mr Njiru has sued Mr Lokorio and his driver Peter Ng’etich accusing them of defamation. Justice Ngugi said the application by Mr Lokorio seeking to dismiss the suit by Mr Njiru shall be dealt with by way of written submissions. “I direct both parties to serve their submissions within fourteen days before the matter is heard on January 24,” said Justice Ngugi in his ruling on Monday. 'RETIREMENT SAGA' Mr Njiru, a long-serving press secretary of the former president moved to court on June 21 this year accusing Mr Lokorio and Mr Ng’etich of defamation after the latter said that Mr Njiru had retired from service and was holding office and a government vehicle illegally. The dispute first landed in police hands after the driver, Mr Ngetich, recorded a statement at Menengai Police Station in Rongai, Nakuru County, over the matter. In Mr Ngetich’s statement dated October 9, 2017, the driver said that Mr Njiru had retired and should not have a government car. Mr Njiru says the orders to repossess the vehicle were issued by Mr Lokorio. NJIRU AFFIDAVITS Mr Njiru has maintained that he has not retired and is holding office legally in accordance with the Presidential Retirement Benefits Act. In court documents, he has accused Mr Lokorio of illegally trying to force him out of office before his tenure ends in 2021. Mr Njiru attached a letter signed by former State House comptroller Lawrence Lenayapa, dated June 5, 2017, indicated that Mr Njiru’s contract has been extended to June 30, 2020. He has further annexed another letter signed by the State House comptroller Kinuthia Mbugua dated September 25, showing his contract extension again to September 11, 2021. “This is to convey to you the decision by the Public Service Commission of Kenya that you have been appointed/ upgraded to the grade of personal assistant / press secretary in the office of the Former President Daniel Arap Moi for a period of three years with effect from September 12, 2018,” read part of the letter seen by Nation. In the application dated August 21, Mr Lokorio wants the court to strike out the case saying it lacked jurisdiction to hear the matter. 'LABOUR ISSUE' Through his lawyer Mr Kipkoech Ng’etich, Mr Lokorio has faulted the petitioner saying that the issues raised are job related and should be handled by the Employment and Labour Relations court instead of the constitutional court. Mr Ngetich termed the suit as defective, arguing that the lawyer who commissioned the affidavit has an interest in the matter. The case will be heard in January 24, 2019, next year.   Former Head of State’s press secretary accused of keeping a government vehicle illegally.