Eight Ambira Boys High School students caught on video last week hurling insults at Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed and her Interior counterpart Fred Matiang’i faced court on Monday morning. The minors, who appeared before Ukwala Resident Magistrate Gladys Adhiambo, however, did not take plea to any charge after the prosecution requested for seven more days to wrap up investigations. CLIP The magistrate granted the prosecution’s request and ordered the minors detained at Ugunja Police Station until December 3. "The application to hold the suspects at Ugunja police station for purposes of completing investigations is merited and unopposed,” she said. “The suspects have indicated that they are all minors and I therefore order that they be held at the children's cells.” In the 30-second clip that went viral on Friday, the students who seemed to be celebrating completion of their Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) exams said they cheated despite strict invigilation and tight security during the tests. They then hurled unprintable insults at the two Cabinet secretaries as they burnt learning materials. “Shule huisha, shule huisha, tumeiba, tumeiba (this is the end of school, this is the end of school, we cheated, we cheated,” shouted the candidates. Ugunja Chief-Inspector Andrew Nyambati, who is leading investigations in the matter, told the packed court that the students were arrested between November 23-25 in Ugunja, Ugenya, Kisumu, Busia, Gilgil and Nairobi. EXHIBITS While making his application to be granted seven more days to complete investigations, the officer said he had not recorded statements from key witnesses who include Dr Mohammed and Dr Matiang’i. He said some of the evidence they intend to use in the case is in Nairobi. "The suspects have also not been taken to a doctor to verify their ages and we have also not found some exhibits we intend to use. We suspect that they (the exhibits) are in Nairobi," Mr Nyambati told the court. Dressed in civilian, except one who was still in uniform, the students, who were not represented, struggled to cover their faces from onlookers. Seven of them said they were 17 years old except one who said he was 16. They did not object the prosecution's request to hold them for more days. Inspector-General Joseph Boinett had last week said detectives would go after the boys to find out if they cheated in the exams.   The education system is not achieving its goal of nurturing morally stable individuals.