Interim Gor Mahia coach Zedekiah “Zico” Otieno is confident he can fill in Dylan Kerr's shoes as the club manager after the Briton resigned last week. Kerr, who has since been unveiled at South African Premier Soccer League (PSL) side Black Leopards, resigned on Thursday last week after a successful 16-month spell where he led the club to back-to-back SportPesa Premier League (SPL) titles. Down South, the 51-year-old Kerr replaces Joel Masutha, who coincidentally resigned on Thursday last week after a string of poor results. Black Leopards, founded in 1983, were promoted to the PSL this season and are ranked at position 14 on the 16-team PSL table with nine points after 11 matches. Otieno, who was named caretaker manager last week, is currently overseeing the team’s preseason preparations ahead of a busy 2018/2019 campaign where the Kenyan champions will be seeking to retain the league and improve on their continental show where they reached the money-spinning Caf Confederation Cup group stage. “We are moving in the right direction,” Otieno told Nation Sport on Tuesday after guiding his charges in their 1-0 win over second tier outfit Wazito in a preseason friendly match at Camp Toyoyo grounds. “We had a very good working chemistry with Kerr, now that he has left I think I just have to step up and do the job he would’ve loved Gor to do so I am not under pressure at all, it’s just a continuation,” added the former Harambee Stars coach. “I am a coach by profession, I think I am up to the task, this is not the first time I am doing it,” added Otieno in reference to the 2010/2011 season when he doubled up as Harambee Stars and Gor Mahia coach. Having served as a head coach before at Chemelil Sugar, Sony Sugar and recently Posta Rangers, a team he left for Gor in July last year, the 49-year-old believes time is ripe to be the main man at the 17-time champions. “Its not a big deal, the difference now is that I am in charge and I have to think as a head coach and make decisions sometimes they are tough but you’ve to make them,” he emphasised. K’Ogalo host Malawi champions Nyasa Bullets in the first round, first leg on Wednesday next week at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani from 7pm, a match Otieno wants his charges to capitalise on the home advantage. Otieno further said Ugandan left back Shaffik Batambuze, centre-half Pascal Ogweno and midfielder Kenneth Muguna, who joined the team last month, are settling in well. “These are players we knew we needed because they could fit into our style of play, I hope they can help us do better,” he concluded. Wesley Onguso, Kevin “Ade” Omondi and Karim Nizigiyimana are said to be on their way out.  