I was introduced to debating in primary school at Standard Four. The motions for debate were declarative, almost warlike, and as simplistic as they could possibly get. One of those motions which I remember vividly stated: “To be a teacher is better than to be a doctor”. PROFESSIONS Like they did in ancient Athens, the whole school sat on the rugged lawns of Kilgoris’ St Joseph’s Primary School in two formations — the proposers and the opposers — to convince the panel about which of the two professions was actually better. ESSENTIAL Usually the debates generated more heat than light. In the end, the winners were declared on such irrelevant technicalities as the bombast of the vocabulary used. In hindsight, except for the fact that the debate developed our communication skills and cured our stage fright, the motion itself was useless in the end because the teacher and the doctor were both noble and essential. USELESS Only recently, Deputy President William Ruto ignited a debate which sounded pretty much like those of my early days. In this case, he seemed to pose the motion: “Sciences are better than Arts”. While addressing a gathering at Jeremiah Nyagah Technical Institute in Embu, he called upon institutions of higher learning to scrap what he termed as “useless” art subjects which did not help graduates find employment. DIRECTIVE Except, of course, that the statement by the Deputy President was not an idle Thursday afternoon school debate. This was a directive from the second most powerful man in the land instructing institutions of higher learning to replace the humanities with more job-market friendly subjects in science and technology. Admittedly, the Deputy President is a bot-zoo (botany and zoology) graduate and I am a graduate of literature and languages. Therefore, of necessity, whereas he proposes the motion to de-emphasise the humanities I oppose that from the outset. ALL-ROUNDED To effectively argue the case for the social sciences, the arts and the humanities, there are two myths and untruths which need debunking. The first is the assumption that the be-all and end-all of education is to provide graduates with a salaried job. Far from being an assembly line for employees, the education system of any serious country is a crucible where all-rounded citizens are fashioned. It is the place where the next generation of citizens acquire the skills to work, the knowledge to navigate life, and the values to sustain society. WHOLESOME There is no disputing that the economy needs labour. However, a wholesome society needs much more than this. Besides being an economy, a country also has social life. The tools and other wherewithal needed for a society to survive and thrive cannot all come from botanists, zoologists and other branches of science. REVOLUTION On the contrary, the most advanced societies have both thriving industrial economies and vibrant arts. The power of Europe was enhanced, not just by the drivers of the Industrial Revolution, but also by the artistic productions of William Shakespeare of Great Britain, Leon Tolstoy of Russia, Michelangelo di Lodovico of Italy and Pablo Ruiz Picasso of Spain among other defining artists. SUFFOCATE It is tantamount to heresy to suppress or suffocate the teaching of the humanities in order to convert the education system into a workforce factory. The development of talent, the study of our past as a guide to our future, the teaching of liberal arts as a way to anchor and sustain our democracy, are just some of the legitimate purposes for which schools exist. MODERNISE These must continue to be funded instead of being bullied or intimidated. Whereas the sciences may grow our economies and modernise our tool kit, the arts and the humanities in general help to grow our societies and sense of nationhood.PROSPERITY The second fallacy which needs to be confronted is the assumption that the arts do not create jobs. Robert L Lynch, the CEO and President of America for the Arts has argued that “strategic investment in our arts and cultural organisations is not an extra, it’s a path to prosperity.” Indeed, in the case of the United States, statistics for 2015 produced by the Bureau for Economic Analysis, demonstrates that culture and the arts are a significant contributor to the economy. 4.2 MILLION In 2015, the Arts and Culture contributed close to $800 billion to the economy surpassing agriculture, transportation and warehousing. This figure accounted for 4.2 per cent of GDP. The sector employed about 4.2 million people directly — and even more people indirectly. I have tremendous faith in Kenya’s gene pool and have no doubt that if the humanities are streamlined and cultivated — not ridiculed — Kenyan youth can surprise the world just as they have done in sport and technology. NAYSERS Art and culture could easily become one of Kenya’s biggest employers and export revenue earners. In fact, contrary to the assertions of the naysayers, this sector can generate a larger employment pool, much faster than the conventional sectors with much lower investment requirements. My friend, Nicholas Moipei, who chairs the Board of the Kenya Cultural Centre, has related to me how investments made at the Kenya National Theatre have transformed the place and increased its revenues besides giving our youth an avenue for their God-given talents. INVESTMENT Institutions of higher learning themselves need to get serious about the arts and humanities and not simply treat them as tuition fee cash cows. There is a glaring need for financial investment in this sector across all the constituent disciplines. POTENTIAL Investments required include voice and language laboratories, state of the art studios, performance theatres, modern libraries and partnerships with relevant industry players to ensure that graduates of the arts, are not just dreaming theorists with no market orientation and ready targets of ridicule. In short, the arts and humanities must stand up to be counted and strive to attain their full potential. Mr Sunkuli, an author and publisher, is the chairman of Mara Education Trust; andrew.sunkuli@gmail.com  