Kenya’s most successful club in top flight rugby Nondescripts RFC are aiming at nothing short of this season’s Kenya Cup play offs. Nondies might have won Kenya Cup a record 17 titles but it’s exactly two decades since they lifted the coveted title. Will this be the season that Red Lion, as they fondly known, eventually reclaim their lost roar? That’s the question on every one’s lips after they stunned Enterprise Cup holders Homeboyz 20-14 in round one and followed it with an emphatic 27-22 win over defending champs and much fancied Kenya Commercial Bank on Saturday. This is the best start by Nondies in almost five years. In 2016/2017, they lost their two opening matches 37-22 amd 17-5 to Impala Saracens and Homeboyz respectively. In 2017/2018, they went down 8-0 to a sturdy Blak Blad and then fell 29-21 to Deejays a week later. The Red Lion’s tail is up and are out for a kill. They are currently second on the log with nine points, one behind leaders Kabras Sugar. Nondies new gaffer Willis “Foxxy” Ojal attributes the team’s success to great team work shown by the playing unit and the club’s management committee. However, Ojal has warned his charges not to rest on their laurels. “Every team is now aware the threat we possess and they’ll come hard at us,” said Ojal adding that their target is to make it to the play-off. He also pointed out that besides new signings, the club’s change in preseason training routine may have worked magic. The club focused on improving the team’s fitness which has been their weakest point in years. “The management has given the technical bench a free hand to run the team and has accorded us enough financial support,” Ojal told Nation Sport. Among new recruitment include Blak Blad’s marauding back row Steve Odhiambo, lock Brian Njenga nd utility back Ivan Chebo. Former Impala Saracens Academy star scrum half Ian Mabwa has also crossed over to Jamhuri Park. Ojal revealed that their rebuilding took rather long when their 1998 winning team retired and others quit the club. “It has taken time to build something strong and competitive. We looked at the past and knew what was affecting us. We always start well before we wilt under pressure in the last 20 minutes. We are changing that and we are now playing to our strengths.” Nondies welcome an unpredictable Menengai Oilers, who stunned Kenya Harlequin 14-8 in Nakuru, at Jamhuri on Saturday.  