Deputy President William Ruto on Saturday said the time for dishing out jobs to politicians is over. The DP said that the government is keen on creating employment opportunities for millions of jobless Kenyans. TOP JOBS Mr Ruto’s sentiments came a few days after opposition leaders Raila Odinga (ODM) and Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) landed top jobs. Mr Odinga was last month appointed African Union’s High Representative for Infrastructure Development, while Mr Kalonzo is the new head of the Monitoring and Evaluation Commission on peace in South Sudan. Since their appointments, the two leaders have been on the receiving end from some of their supporters and allies who feel betrayed. The Deputy President said time for politicking was over. “There is no space for politicians. What is remaining is delivering on our development promises,” he said. The DPalso asked leaders to stop old-fashioned politics and, instead, adopt policy-driven politics. “We agreed with President Kenyatta to unite the country. We do not want politics which is based on propaganda and division,” Mr Ruto said in Kisii County. The DP presided over fundraisers in Kitutu Chache North, Bobasi and Bomachoge Borabu constituencies where he donated over Sh5 million to churches. ELECTION The DP said the 2022 presidential race will be won by an individual who has helped change the lives of Kenyans through development. Mr Ruto asked Kenyans to reject candidates with poor development records and go for those with the best policies on matters roads, water, health, electricity and other development issues. “Kenyans will not elect leaders depending on the length of their stories and empty promises. It will be about development,” he said. The DP appeared to fight off claims that the contest to succeed President Kenyatta will be tough for him. The president recently said he will have a strong influence on the polls. “People think I’m silent because I’m going home but when that time comes, I will definitely have a word to say,” said President Kenyatta. While expressing confidence that he is prepared to face his opponents, Mr Ruto termed himself the best candidate to change the lives of Kenyans through development. “We do not want politics of tribalism and hate. Let Kenyans be given space to choose their preferred leaders on the basis of development,” he said. He pleaded with Kenyans to send home leaders who have, over time, lured voters with empty promises.   Mr Odinga becomes the first Kenyan to be appointed a high representative of the AU chairperson.