Women can now tell when their sons will go into puberty simply by checking when they had their first menstrual bleed. This has been discovered by a new study that was conducted by the Aarhus University, Denmark. The study states that the age at which women have their first periods is correlated with the age at which their boys launch into puberty, or start showing signs of adolescence. To come up with these findings, the researchers surveyed 15,822 children who were born between year 2000 and 2003. 7,697 were boys while 8,125 were girls. These children were followed up until October 2016. Over this period, the researchers interviewed their mothers twice during pregnancy. They were also asked to fill questionnaires when the children turned seven years. In the questionnaires, the mothers were asked to state when they had their first menstruation cycle. When the children turned 11 years up until age 18, the researchers offered them questionnaires that were tailor-made to establish when their puberties kicked in. The children were asked to fill these questionnaires after every six months. 71 per cent of the children responded to these questionnaires fully. “Our review established that mothers who reported having their first menstrual bleed earlier than their peers had sons with signs of puberty starting earlier than their peers too,” said Dr. Nis Brix who co-authored the study. “If the mothers started puberty later than their peers, then the sons experienced first ejaculation, growth of armpit hair and development of pimples on the face later than their peers’ sons.” The study also found out that the largest difference was when hair started growing in the armpits. “This started on approximately two and half months earlier than the mothers’,” the study said. “The children’ voices broke nearly two months earlier, their first ejaculation occurred about one and half months earlier, while development of acne and pimples commenced two months earlier.” The study also vindicated earlier research endeavours which have found direct links between a mother’s first menstrual bleed and her daughter’s. “The only notable difference in girls is that the development of breasts will usually start six months earlier than the mother’s among daughters whose mothers had early periods than their peers. It will also start up to four months late for daughters whose mothers went into puberty later than their peers,” the study said. This study was published in the journal Human Reproduction.   People can be motivated to stay in unfulfilling relationships for the sake of their partners.