Brazilian football legend Ronaldo de Assis Moriera, popularly known as Ronaldinho Gaucho has emphasised the need for countries to nurture talent from the grassroots. On Sunday, the former footballer graced two football matches at the Camp Toyoyo grounds in Nairobi, and KCB Ruaraka grounds. He also opened a betting shop in Westlands and later held a 45-minute session with journalists. "Nothing comes for free," explained the former Barcelona, Paris Saint-Germain and AC Milan forward. "You have to come up with a way to bring out the best players in the country from a very young level, at the grassroots. The footballers should train hard, work hard. That is my advice." The former footballer is on a three-day working trip in Kenya, courtesy of betting company Betika. His visit has caused much excitement and fanfare among football lovers in the country, most of whom have thronged designated areas to watch him or take a memorabilia photo with him. At the Camp Toyoyo grounds, the 38-year-old presented trophies and prizes to Jericho AllStars who beat the Technical University of Kenya 3 -0 to win the 2018 Super 8 Champions League final match. Ronaldinho presented Jericho AllStars with a glittering trophy and dummy cheque of Sh100,000. Goals from John Owalla and a Kevin Ndung’u double sealed the victory for AllStars. Earlier at the same venue, Makadara Junior League beat Team Umeme 2-1 to claim the third spot in this competition. From Camp Toyoyo, Ronaldinho switched to KCB Ruaraka grounds in time to watch another thrilling friendly match which saw Kenyan Premier League team Sofapaka run out comfortable 4-1 winners over Kenya Legends FC.Kepha Aswani, Ezekiel Okare, Elly Asieche and Kennedy Oduor scored for Sofapaka, while famous reggae DJ Kriss Darlin scored for Legends. Sofapaka took home Sh200,000, while the legends, coached by former Harambee Stars tactician Jacob ‘Ghost’ Mulee and which had former Kenyan internationals Dennis Oliech, Henry Motego, Musa Otieno and Victor Onyango, took home Sh150,000.   The celebrated ex-Brazilian footballer didn't stay for long at the stadium.