It is said that an idle mind is the devil’s workshop. Whether you are in the office or at home, having nothing to fill the free time you find yourself with could be the reason you become distractive – have difficulty paying attention to a specific task. It is also during this time that you find yourself sending inappropriate memes to professional WhatsApp groups that you are in or intrude on your busy colleagues’ or friends’ schedules. Here is the thing, if you are the average committed employee, chances are that there will be days when you will complete the tasks stipulated in your job description way before it is time to clock off. Most who find themselves in such a situation often find themselves using company time and company resources to go online. How best can you make use of your free time to move your career forward? Well, here is a list of productive things that might be a better and more useful way to fill up your free time. Research on a subject that you are curious about. It could be about your job, an aspect that you are curious about or just a new or different aspect of your field that you are keen on growing into. You could also use this time to do some benchmarking, for instance, find out what more there is to the position that you hold in your place of work. Research and compare what other similar roles exist, who knows, you might even discover ways to improve your output at work or more innovative ways to execute your tasks. This is also the chance to discover a professional network, a factor that will play a very critical role in broadening your scope and understanding your field better. RESPOND TO EMAILS There are those emails that you receive, but since you don’t deem them urgent, you put them aside to send at a later date. Unfortunately, procrastination never yields anything positive, so chances are that you will forget that email as soon as you put it in the backburner. When you find yourself with free time, go through your mail box and ensure that everything that needs your attention has been responded to. This would also be a good time to archive or delete emails that have been stewing in your mailbox for the past two years. In a nutshell, spend this time making your mail box lighter. LEARN SOMETHING NEW ABOUT THE SOFTWARE YOU USE AT WORK We live in the digital era, and chances are that if you work in an office, then you use at least two software to do your job. The extra time you find yourself with could go into learning how to use these software better. Apart from improving your knowledge, you also learn better ways of improving on the delivery of your work. This is a brilliant way to improve on your skills and construct your weak points. TAKE A PERSONALITY TEST Understanding yourself is very important if you are to make the right decisions at work or understand how you react to different situations. In the long run, this prepares you better for unforeseen problems at the work place. The fact is that we have many people who know their names but do not really know who they are because they have not taken the time to understand themselves. Well, free time could be a good opportunity for you to engage in some inner learning. LEARN A NEW SKILL Do you and your desk mate do exactly the same job or are there differences? If their work is different from what you do, why not spend your free time learning about what they do? All you need to do is agree on a time that is convenient for them. READ THE DAY'S PAPER Reading a newspaper is the one thing you can do in the office that is not on your job description, yet still make you look responsible. If you do not have access to the print copy, read the digital version, remember that any additional information and knowledge is worthwhile, since it will help you understand the world that you live in better. Instead of idling at your desk, read something and grow your knowledge base. ASK FOR MORE WORK! Yes, if you feel that the reason you have lots of time you have no idea what to do with is due to a relaxed work schedule, then ask for more work, however, do this only if sure that you will be able to execute your current job satisfactorily. The list of things and activities you could take up to keep positively engaged is endless if only you could bring yourself to take a few minutes break from the current series you are watching!  