Kenyans Albert Njogu and Sneha Kotecha are through to the semi-finals of their respective events of the ongoing ITF East Africa Junior Circuit 18 and Under tournament at the Nairobi Club. Njogu, a form three student at Mbagathi Secondary School, weathered Ukrainian Taras Pakharenko’s strong forehand, beating his in straight sets of 6-3, 6-1 to advance on Wednesday. The 17-year-old Njogu, who is seeded third, will now meet 12th seeded Maxime Dubouch of France after the latter saw off Italian Rotilio Riccardo 6-3, 6-4. “It wasn’t easy though my consistency in training is what is doing the trick,” said Njogu, who is eying his maiden victory, having participated in five of the ITF East Africa Junior Circuit 18 and Under tournaments this year. Njogu has reached the final in one event, one semi-final and three quarterfinal stages. “I believe it’s my time but I am taking one match at ago since all the players have equal opportunities despite the seeding,” said Njogu. Dubouch stunned seventh seeded Nikhil Niranjan from United States 4-6, 6-4, 6-1 for the third round date with Riccardo, who stopped the high-flying Alexander Stokbroekx from Belgium. It’s the Belgian, who silenced second seeded Sina Moghimi from Iran, in the second round. Top seeded Abdoul Kabura of Burundi will meet R. Galfinger from Kazakhstan in the other last four encounter. Kabura sealed his semis slot after beating Damien Laporte from Seychelles 6-3, 6-0. Galfinger saw off A. Gammariello from Italy 6-3, 6-1. Top seeded Kotecha, who is chasing her third title, stopped ninth seeded Andjela Lopicic from Serbia 6-2, 6-3 to reach the semi-finals. "I just remained consistent with my good serves even though Lopicic upped her game in the last set," said Kotecha, who reached the final in one of the ITF East Africa Junior Circuit 18 and Under in January, before winning two of them in July. Kotecha will meet fourth seeded Tea Lukic after the German saw off Ethiopian Sara Kasahune 6-1, 6-0. Kasahune had shocked sixth seeded Mialy Ranaivo from Madagascar 0-6, 7-5, 6-4 to set up Lukic. Lukic had stopped Italian Chiara 6-4, 7-6 (2). Second seeded Aisha Niyonkuru from Burundi beat seventh seeded Narindra Ranaivo of Madagascar 4-6, 6-3, 6-4 to book a date with South African third seeded Van Der Merwe. Merwe saw off 11th seeded Vineetha Mummadi from India 6-5, 5-7,6-2.  