Defending champions Kenya Shujaa and Kenya Morans are through to main Cup quarterfinals of the ongoing Safari Sevens at the RFUEA grounds. Shujaa touched down six tries and four conversions to crush Apache from United Kingdom 42-0 to sail through, having previously downed Mwamba 53-0 in their opening Pool “A” outing. Apache, who beat Namibia 28-5 in their opening match, now must beat Mwamba in their last match at 5.28pm if they are to make it to the Cup quarterfinals. On the other hand, Namibia, who recovered from Apache’s defeat to plummet Mwamba 24-5, must beat Shujaa in their last pool duel at 5.50pm if they hope to seal a Cup quarter’s berth. Daniel Taabu launched Shujaa’s assault with a try as Herman Humwa and Alvin Otieno added more tries. Jonathan Olindi and Taabu made one conversion as Shujaa led 19-0 at the break. Olindi, Harold Anduvate and Cyprian Kuto’s tries put them beyond reach against the struggling Apache. Tabbu and Olindi again made a conversion each for Shujaa, who are chasing their ninth Cup success. Morans staged a thrilling battle, stunning former World Rugby Sevens Series core team Portugal 12-5 to ease through from Pool “C”. What gave Morans the cushion to the Cup quarters was their other stunning 19-12 victory against Uganda Cranes in their opening match. Mark Kwemoi converted Timothy Mmasi’s try to lead 7-5 at the break with the Portuguese scoring an unconverted try through Fernando Hago. Brian Wahinya ensured Moran’s clean run to the last eight with a try. “So far, so good and that is what we wanted,” said Shujaa skipper Eden Agero. “We are taking one step at a time since we know the knockout stage will be tricky.” Agero believes that Samurai and Spain, who are also through from Pool “B” alongside Morans will be their main challengers if they are to meet at any given time in the knockouts. “We want to focus on ourselves at the moment and not our opponents,” said Agero. Morans captain Samuel Motari is also elated by his team’s performance. “This is a good stage for these youngsters to show what they have. We are ready for any opponent and challenge,” declared Motari. Samurai, the 2015 champions, and Spain eased past Emerging Uganda Cranes and Red Wailers 50-7 and 21-14 respectively to storm the Cup quarters. Samurai had beaten Red Wailers 27-5 while Spain piped Emerging Cranes 24-19 in their opening Pool “B” matches. Samurai and Spain were to battle at 4.22pm to decide Pool "B" winners.   Shujaa crushed local side Mwamba 53-0 in the Pool “A” opening match.