Nothing less than global health security is at stake when antibiotics are misused. From being miracle lifesavers, antibiotics are becoming ineffective against resistant infections, which can affect anyone, of any age, in any country. Antibiotic resistance occurs when bacteria (not humans or animals) become resistant to the active ingredients in these medicines. These resistant bacteria may infect humans and animals, making infections like pneumonia, tuberculosis and gonorrhoea harder to treat. The World Health Organisation (WHO) will join the global community to observe the World Antibiotic Awareness Week from today to November 18, with the overall theme, “Think Twice. Seek Advice.” This year, the WHO is introducing sub-themes to showcase the immense work underway to tackle antimicrobial resistance, and which demonstrate how antibiotics are linked between humans, animals and the environment. POOR INFECTION CONTROL The reasons for the rising antibiotic resistance, include over-prescribing, misuse by patients who don’t follow the advice of healthcare professionals, overuse in farming, poor infection control, and a lack of new antibiotics. We can help by seeking advice from a health professional before taking antibiotics. Laboratories and researchers have a critical role to play in identifying resistant bacteria and contributing to the global picture so the world can take appropriate action Africa lacks data on the scope and scale of antibiotic resistance. However, antibiotic resistance is rising because common bacteria, which cause urinary tract infections, diarrhoea and septic wounds, among other ailments, are becoming resistant to readily available and prescribed antibiotics. INFORMATION Across the continent, laboratories can help by looking out for evidence of resistance in the bacteria they see, and to feed this information into national and regional efforts to understand how it spreads and where it poses the greatest risk. Hospitals and health centres can help keep infections at bay with thorough hygiene and sanitation practices. Healthcare practitioners should always practise good infection prevention and control. In addition, they should only prescribe and dispense antibiotics when they are truly needed, inform patients on how to use them appropriately, and educate them on how to avoid common infections. All hospitals and community health centres should control the spread of infections by making use of the best possible hygiene and sanitation measures available. TREAT DISEASES Patients should never demand nor share antibiotics, and only use them when prescribed by a certified healthcare professional. Farmers and food producers can help by giving antibiotics to animals only to control or treat infectious diseases, and phase out the routine use of antibiotics to promote growth. Ensuring that patients and animals use antibiotics only when they are really needed is critical to keeping antibiotics effective for as long as possible. Investments are needed to build a smarter world for safe, effective medicines. Research and development is the cornerstone of new, life-saving antibiotics. However, since the 1980s, there have been very few new antibiotics. Incentives for public-private partnerships to invest in new medicines, vaccines and diagnostic tools are urgently needed to stimulate the development of new antibiotics. EFFECTIVE MEDICINES Governments, funding agencies and the private sector need to invest and work together to secure safe and effective medicines for generations to come. The WHO in the African region has made the fight against antibiotic resistance a top priority, and is working with countries to develop and implement action plans to combat antibiotic resistance and generate reliable data for action. We are helping countries to build resilient health systems through stronger regulation and policies, which promote the appropriate use of quality antibiotics. Misuse of antibiotics puts us all at risk. I urge everyone to think twice and seek advice from a qualified health professional before taking antibiotics. Dr Moeti is the WHO Regional Director for Africa.  