President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto on Thursday sent a strong delegation of four governors, two MPs and 11 ward representatives to former Bomet governor Isaac Ruto's home in what might be construed as the strongest indication yet of the return of the outspoken politician to national politics. Until recently when he came out strongly to oppose the Mau Forest evictions, Mr Ruto had retreated to a quiet life after his defeat in the 2017 elections. He had, instead, chosen to focus on farming, a passion for which he was feted by President Kenyatta just last month. Accompanied by Mr Ruto's aide Farouk Kibet, governors Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu), Paul Chepkwony (Kericho), Samwel Tunai (Narok) and West Pokot's John Lonyangapuo held three separate meetings at Mr Ruto’s home in Tumoi village, Chepalungu sub-county. The meeting was also attended by Chepalungu Member of Parliament Gideon Koskei, 11 Chama Cha Mashinani (CCM) Members of County Assembly and the party’s former aspirants for various positions in the last General Election. FOUR GOVERNORS The four governors, Mr Cheruiyot, and Mr Kibet flew into the home in three helicopters and went for a closed-door meeting before addressing CCM delegates and MCAs. They then proceeded to address hundreds of residents who turned up at the compound. Sources said that the meeting was the culmination of a series of meetings Mr Ruto has had with the President, his Deputy, and other leaders over the last one year. Mr Mandago said, without elaborating, that the Thursday meeting in Bomet was a clear pointer of bigger things that would unfold in the coming days in the political arena. “We have come here to urge Mr Ruto to work closely with the President and his Deputy in delivering on their development agenda both at the national and regional levels,” said Mr Mandago. Mr Ruto revealed that the leaders had repeatedly asked him to support the Jubilee administration in delivering on it development agenda. WORK TOGETHER “Recently, they approached me and I told them to come to the grassroots and highlight the issues to the people so that they can understand where we are going,” Mr Ruto said. Leaders from Bomet county, including Governor Joyce Laboso, were not at the meeting. Mr Tunai and Mr Lonyangapuo said the Chama Cha Mashinani party leader had played a major role in uniting the various communities living in the Rift Valley. “As leaders from Rift Valley, we must ensure that the various political parties in the region work together and read from the same script,” said Mr Lonyangapuo.   President blasts legislators, tells them to stop 'loitering' and work.