Four-time African champions Ghana picked up key lessons after their 1-0 defeat to Kenya in September and have made huge changes to the squad to face Ethiopia in Addis Ababa in tomorrow's Group “F” qualifier for next year's African finals. Ghana, who held a five-day training camp in Nairobi, left for Addis Friday with a star-studded team of 19 players led by captain Asamoah Gyan. Gyan, who turns out for Turkish side Kayserispor, returned to the team alongside Ayew brothers Andre and Jordan having missed the shocking Kenya loss that complicated their qualification chances after the Confederation of African Football cancelled their double header against Sierra Leone last month. The "Leone Stars" are serving an indefinite suspension from world football governing body, Fifa, due to government interference. Ghana coach Kwesi Appiah gave in to pressure from Black Stars fans after the defeat by recalling his best players for the must win clash. Of the team that left for Ethiopia, only six - namely Richard Ofori, Andy Yiadom, Harrison Afful, Thomas Partey, Acquah Afiriye and Majeed Waris - played against Kenya. The team has been training at Utalii grounds and the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani. Only Inter Milan midfielder Kwadwo Asamoah, who was a second half substitute against Kenya, withdrew from the team. “It's important to get a win to make sure we qualify then everybody will relax," Appiah told Nation Sport after the two-hour session on Thursday. “The Ayew brothers and Gyan are key players in our team and anytime the going is tougher, you need them to be part of the journey.” Ghana is third in the group on three points, four behind leaders Kenya. Ethiopia are second on four points after four rounds. Appiah believes that the Sierra Leone situation has not affected their chances. “We are only focusing on our mission in the remaining two games against Ethiopia and Kenya.” Ghana squad that camped in Kenya Goalkeepers: Richard Ofori (Martizburg, South Africa) and Lawrence Ati (Sochaux, France) Defenders: Harrison Afful (Columbus Crew, USA) Lumor Agbenyenu (Sporting CP, Portugal), Andy Yiadom (Reading, England), Jonathan Mensah (Columbus Crew, USA), John Boye (FC Metz, France), Kassim Nuhu (Hoffenheim, Germany) Midfielders: Christian Atsu (Newcastle, England) Mubarak Wakaso (Alaves, Spain), Majeed Ashimeru (St Gallen, Switzerland), Andre Ayew (Fenerbahce, Turkey), Nana Ampomah (Waasland-Beveren, Belgium), Afriyie Acquah (Empoli, Italy), Thomas Partey (Atlético Madrid, Spain) Forward: Majeed Waris (FC Nantes, France), Jordan Ayew (Crystal Palace, England) Asamoah Gyan (Kayserispor, Turkey) Emmanuel Boateng (Levante, Spain)   Only Inter Milan midfielder Kwadwo Asamoah has not linked up with the team.