Gor Mahia youngster Eliud Lokuwam is among 57 players called up for the Kenya trials by coach Francis Kimanzi to pick a team for the Under-23 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier. Kenya Under-23 are scheduled to play Mauritius in a two-leg match-up between November 16 and 19. Winners will face either Seychelles or Sudan in the second round. The African finals comprising eight nations will be held in Egypt from November 8 to 22 next year where the top three teams will qualify for the 2020 Olympic Games football competition in Japan. The 57 players will have two open sessions this weekend before other trials on Tuesday and Wednesday after which a squad of 25 will be selected for residential training starting on November 8. Only players born on or after January 1, 1997 are eligible to play in the these qualifiers. Kenya were knocked out by Botswana in the first round of the 2015 Africa Under-23 qualifiers that doubled as the 2016 Olympic Games qualifiers. Meanwhile, USA-based Sam Mburu is itching for a chance to represent Kenya Under-23 in the fight to appear in the Olympics. Even though Mburu was not named in the large squad to attend trials he is calling for consideration. Twenty-two years old Mburu, who primarily is a striker, was one of the standout players for Tornado FC in the recently concluded Carolina College League. Mburu featured for Kenya Under-20 at the Cosafa Youth Championship held in Lesotho in 2013 where they finished second out of eight nations, behind winners South Africa. “I would be honoured to play for Kenya again especially at this moment when I have some time on my hands,” said Mburu, recently linked with a move to Nottingham Forest of England. Provisional squad: Goalkeepers: Timothy Odhiambo (Ulinzi Stars), Job Ochieng (Mathare United), Kelvin Omondi (Sony Sugar), Brian Bwire (Kariobangi Sharks), Richard Aimo (Chemelil Sugar) Defenders: Johnstone Omurwa (Mathare United), Joseph Okumu (Real Monarchs, USA), Mike Kibwage (KCB), Lennox Ogutu (Mathare United), Kelvin Omondi (Chemelil Sugar), Brian Ochieng (KCB), Martin Ongori (Mathare United), Ian Eshikoko (Chemelil Sugar), Yussuf Mainge (AFC Leopards), Baraka Badi (KCB), Shadrack Andale (Nairobi Stima), Moses Mudavadi (Bandari), Samuel Semo (KCB), Kevin Ouko (Chemelil Sugar), Haroun Mwale (Ulinzi Stars), Ali Hassan (Bandari), David Owino (Mathare United), Arnold Onyango (Laiser Hill Academy), John Njuguna (Nakuru All Stars) Midfielders: Bernard Ouma (Our Lady of Fatuma), Teddy Osok (Sofapaka), Mohammed Kilume (Sofapaka), Tobias Otieno (Sony Sugar), Mahab Ogwel (Kibera Black Stars), Stephen Oyango (Sony Sugar), Shaphan Oyugi (Kariobangi Sharks), Keegan Ndemi (Bandari), Abdallah Ahmed (Mathare United), Faraj Ominde (Tusker), Ibrahim Shambi (Ulinzi Stars), Patrick Kwitonda (Nzoia Sugar), William Oricho (Chemelil Sugar), John Katua (Wazito), James Ogada (Western Stima), Emmanuel Mogaka (FC Talanta), James Mazembe (Kariobangi Sharks), Fidel Ochieng (Kariobangi Sharks), Michael Ochieng (Kariobangi Sharks), Jaffary Owiti (AFC Leopards), Michael Mutinda (Thika United), Robert Arot (Nakuru All Stars) Forwards: Boniface Mukhekhe (Nakumatt), Chrispinus Onyango (KCB), John Otieno (Kariobangi Sharks), John Mwangi (Mathare United), Victor Ogendo (KCB), Vincent Oburu (AFC Leopards), Eliud Lokuwam (Gor Mahia), Patrick Otieno (Nzoia Sugar), Felix Oluoch (Chemelil Sugar), Piston Mutamba (Sofapaka), Sydney Lokale (Kariobangi Sharks). Coach: Francis Kimanzi  