A national secondary school examinations candidate died in Kisii after taking poison, while another died in Kakamega after being sick for months. In the Kisii case, the candidate of the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) exams fell ill on Friday morning and was rushed to hospital, treated and discharged. SUICIDE NOTE Evans Onchiri, the chief of Morara in Rioma Sensi Ward, Kitutu Chache South, said the student, however, complained of a serious stomach ache that night. He was taken to hospital for further treatment but was pronounced dead on Saturday morning. The chief said the student earlier thanked his teachers for spending time with him. Mr Onchiri said the learner also left a note for his parents, in which he thanked them for taking him through the 8-4-4 education system. COLLAPSE In Kakamega County, a KCSE candidate at Musanda Primary School candidate died in hospital shortly after starting the tests on Thursday. Mrs Hellen Sitawa said her daughter, Rina Musunguti, was taken to was rushed to the St Mary’s Mission Hospital in Mumias with abdominal pains and difficult breathing. She said Ms Musunguti developed the complications after chemistry paper 1 and that she was admitted for about a week. “Preparations were made for her to take the exams in the ward while doctors monitored her," said Mrs Sitawa. "She collapsed while writing chemistry paper 2 exam. The doctors could not resuscitate her." PEPTIC ULCERS Mrs Sitawa said her child had been sick since March and that she had been diagnosed with peptic ulcers and a kidney condition. "But she continued preparing for the exams and had high hopes of performing well,” she said. Ms Elizabeth Barasa, the deputy head teacher of the school, said Ms Musunguti was a hardworking student who showed great promise despite her frequent visits to hospital. Ms Barasa added that the students was sociable and that she was a talented footballer. “We are so saddened by what has happened. Rina’s mother did everything to help her daughter prepare for the exam and get good treatment," she said, adding “Her mother was called to the hospital while supervising the exam at a neighbouring school. She is so devastated."   Victim tells police she fell unconscious after accepting lift offer from principal.