The appointment of task forces has always been the government's preferred approach to solving national crises. At best, it is symptomatic of a knee-jerk reaction to problems, but it also gives the authorities some breathing space as public anger subsides. Every time there is a natural calamity, or the collapse of a building causing deaths or injuries, officials often rush to appoint teams to get to the bottom of such occurrences. But sceptics always point out that many reports have been churned out by such task forces that are yellowing on shelves in public offices. After all, the public will have been assuaged and the casualties forgotten. It is against this backdrop that we see Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia's appointment of a task force to look into the boda boda public transport sub-sector. One wonders what this team will find out that we do not already know. This is a lawless business that contributes immensely to the increasing deaths and injuries on roads. Here is a sub-sector, whose other name is mayhem, and which has lately been abetting crime, as the motorbikes provide a quick means to escape after flouting the law. Shouldn't CS Macharia simply have ordered strict enforcement of rules and regulations for boda boda operators? It is clear that a good number of these riders have not undergone any proper instruction before being issued with licences. They are not licensed to provide public transport, but they do and blatantly flout safety rules such as those requiring them to wear helmets and carry only one passenger, who should also have the protective headgear. Besides the many deaths, hospitals are also teeming with boda boda accident victims, denying space to people suffering from debilitating illnesses. While we welcome the decision to tame an industry that has gained notoriety for lawlessness, we know that strictly enforcing rules and regulations is part of the answer. If they must carry passengers, they should be vetted, tested, licensed and registered. A transport Sacco for the riders and owners would also help to streamline this apparently necessary evil.  