Nobody caught perpetrating the "madness and chaos" in the transport industry will be spared in the crackdown that officially begins Monday, the Interior ministry has said. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i announced on Saturday that the government was ready to deal with matatu operators flouting Michuki rules. ARRESTS, CHARGES Dr Matiang'i warned that those found defying the regulations will be arrested and charged. “The government is prepared to arrest all individuals who will not adhere to traffic rules and regulations," he said in Nakuru County. "I have even spoken with prison authorities and asked them to be ready to accommodate more suspects who will be arrested beginning next week." The minister noted that the operation is aimed at ending confusion and restoring order and sanity in the sector. “We cannot continue losing lives through road accidents because of some greedy individuals who believe in chaos and disorder,” he said, adding that deaths and permanent disabilities have resulted from recklessness. The Cabinet secretary further pointed out that many of those involved in road accidents are young, energetic people whose contributions Kenya requires. “When the country continues to lose its young and productive members, its economy is likely to suffer more,” he said. He said the government will, therefore, sustain the operation. EVERYONE'S GOOD Dr Matiang'i called on leaders, members of the public and industry stakeholders to support the government as the operation will protect their interests. Regarding the concerns of matatu operators protesting against the crackdown, he said the government will continue engaging them. “The decision is for the good of everyone so we shall continue engaging stakeholders. They however, must adhere to the rules first." He spoke during a funds drive at California Seventh Day Adventist Church in Kaptembwa estate, Nakuru Town West Sub-county. He was received by are member of parliament Samuel Arama, who expressed support for the move. THE RECORDS Some of the most tragic accidents over the past few months have taken place in Salgaa in Nakuru and in Fort Ternan, Kericho County. During end-year festivities in 2017, at least 330 people were reported dead in accidents in Salgaa and other parts of the country. The Fort Ternan accident that took place on Moi Day left at least 58 dead. Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji has ordered investigations on the insurance company and the body builder of the bus. It was reported earlier this month that traffic fatalities in the country increased by eight per cent during the first half of 2018. Traffic boss Samwel Kimaru said the number of reported road accidents rose sharply this year. Road crashes have claimed at least 2,345 lives this year compared to 2,165 in the same period last year. In 2013, the government restricted night travel by bus companies following many fatal road crashes, measures which resulted in fewer cases. With the crackdown, transporters will likely keep off he roads as they did last week. On Saturday, Federation of Public Transport Operators announced that members will withdraw their services from Monday in order to comply with government directives.   CSs Matiang'i and Macharia say no one will be spared from Monday.