Since its inception in 1973, Kenyan runners have dominated the Honolulu Marathon, winning the men’s titles 27 times. Kenyan women have also impressed in the Hawaii race, winning the last four editions with world half marathon record holder Joyciline Jepkosgei expected to make her marathon debut here on December 9 and maintain the dominance. Ibrahim Hussein, the legend, opened the flood gates in 1985 when he won the Honolulu Marathon in two hours, 12 minutes and eight seconds, then a course record despite strong winds. It was the first major marathon victory by a Kenyan on American soil. “We thought that the winds, at 40 miles per hour, were not good for Ibrahim’s debut marathon and asked him not to run, and that we would invite him again the following year, but he insisted on running,” Honolulu Marathon president and chief executive officer Jim Barahal flashes back. That year, Hussein won in a course record two hours, 12 minutes and eight seconds. “Honolulu is a good marathon and we are excited about having Joyciline, a world record holder, this year. She will have a great experience and learn a lot.”   Davor Savija, of Ikaika Sport, Jepkosgei’s management company, says the Honolulu Marathon will be a good stepping stone for her championship career. “Joyciline needs to learn to travel, get used to running in non-paced marathons if she wants to win at the Olympics,” he notes. Jonathan Cross, who along with Jim Barahal has been involved in setting up the Honolulu Marathon’s elite field since 1984, vividly recalls Hussein’s second course record run in 1986, saying it catapulted him to greater things, including victory in the Boston Marathon. “When Ibrahim set his second Honolulu Marathon course record in 1986 of 2:11:43, Jim predicted that he could run three minutes faster in cooler weather,” Cross told Nation Sport. “Jim was correct as Ibrahim won his first Boston Marathon (1988) in 2:08:43, exactly three minutes faster. “It will be a special year, this year, as Joyciline will be making her debut here, and we shall be having three young Kenyan junior athletes in the mile race.” Defending champion Edward Cheserek, 18-year-old Leonard Bett and women’s champion Miriam Cherop will feature in the “Kalakaua Merrie Mile” race on the eve of the main marathon which has defending champions and course record holders Lawrence Cherono (2:08:27) and Brigid Kosgei (2:22:15) as the top draw. Both course records were set last year. Next month’s field also has 2015 winner Wilson Chebet, 2017 Seville Marathon champion Titus Ekiru, Vincent Yator, Philip Tarbei, Charles Cheruiyot and Titus Sang. Besides Kosgei, two-time winner (2014, 2015) Joyce Chepkirui, Sheila Jerotich and Vivian Jerono Kiplagat are entered in the women’s race.  