There are no royal families and monarchs in Kenya, Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi has said, terming the classification divisive. Mr Mudavadi, a member of the National Super Alliance (Nasa), aired his views on Saturday, following talk about the 2022 presidential race being one between dynasties and 'hustlers'. RUTO LUNCH The ANC boss spoke during the funeral of Elina Anuna, who was the mother of Emuhaya MP Omboko Milemba. She died aged 82. He spoke after legislators Ronald Tonui (Bomet Central) and Alfred Agoi (Sabatia) discussed Friday's lunch at Deputy President William Ruto's home in Karen Nairobi. The DP hosted President Uhuru Kenyatta, Opposition leader Raila Odinga and businessman Jimi Wanjigi. As such, Mr Tonui said Mr Ruto should also have lunch with Mr Mudavadi, for talks on the 2022 general election. Mr Agoi opposed this, saying his party leader can only dine with suffering Kenyans, whose welfare he is concerned about. Mr Mudavadi steered clear of this subject but took issue with politicians terming the 2022 contest as one between dynasties and hustlers. "When you look at the Constitution, there is no provision for royal families or a monarchy in Kenya," he said. "People should stop these divisive acts. All Kenyans are equal before the law. Whose narrative is this and what is the intended objective? Let us not start introducing divisive ideologies. Voters decide their leader regardless of origin." BIG FAMILIES Since the March 9 handshake between Mr Kenyatta and Mr Odinga, there have been discussions about the unity of 'big' families planning to defeat Mr Ruto's presidential ambition. On Friday, just before the lunch in Karen, Mr Odinga dispelled the notion of royal families. The Orange Democratic Movement leader said he and the president charted their own political paths without relying on the success of their fathers. The current president is the son of founding President Mzee Jomo Kenyatta while the ODM leader is the son of Jaramogi Ofinga, who served as Kenya's first Vice President. The ANC leader came into the political space after the death of his father, Moses Budamba Mudavadi, who was a prominent public figure. Retired President Daniel Moi's son, Gideon, is also angling himself to take over from Mr Kenyatta.   Some analysts say Uhuru prefers a Moi-Raila partnership to a Ruto presidency