A former Nation Media Group distributor has died from age-related complications. Paul Gatete Kiratu, who was based in Nakuru County, was 103 years old. HUMBLE BEGINNINGS Mr Kiratu died on November 16 at Nakuru War Memorial Hospital, his grandson David Karuoya Wanyoike said. He will be buried at the Nakuru North Cemetery on Tuesday. Mr Kiratu rose from humble beginnings as a hawker to become a well-known businessman in Nakuru town. He was popularly referred to as 'Kiratu wa gazeti ya Nation (Kiraitu of the Nation newspaper)'. SHREWD, HUMBLE Former Nation photojournalist Raphael Munge, who worked with Mr Kiratu, described him as a shrewd and aggressive businessman who sacrificed his time to ensure the media company's products hit the market without delays. “Nation newspapers normally reached his shop in the wee hours of the night. He occasionally supervised offloading to make sure they before they were taken to various destinations," said Mr Munge. Former Nakuru Bureau Chief Michael Njuguna described Mr Kiratu as a "humble person who was easy to work with as he loved his job as a distributor and as businessman". Nakuru town resident Osman Abdalla eulogised the businessman as a “great patriarch of Nakuru” and said he will not be forgotten. Mr Kiratu started distributing the newspapers and other products in the early 1960s. He covered North and Central Rift Valley regions until 1999, when he stopped the distribution business. He is survived by 11 children, several grandchildren and great grandchildren. FORMER JOURNALIST Former Nation journalist Casper Waithaka died in a road accident at the Athi River-Namanga interchange on Mombasa Road on Friday night. His close friend and journalist Kurgat Marindany said his car rolled several times after he tried to avoid hitting a boda boda. Mr Waithaka, who had been working as the communication officer for the East African Portland Cement Company, had been on his way to Nairobi for a meeting when the accident occurred.   Casper Waithaka's car rolled several times on Mombasa Road.