Nothing beats a nice eatery joint, especially when you are feeling overwhelmed and just want to get far away from the hustle and bustle of everyday life. Sometime back, I discovered the perfect haven for great food and relaxing music—the Moca Loca lounge located along Kenyatta Avenue at the heart of Nakuru town. I have frequented the restaurant enough times but the experience always leaves me breathless. From the sumptuous menu to tasteful décor, it is little wonder that it has become my favourite place to enjoy some “me” time as well as catch up with friends.   When you walk in, the first thing that will probably catch your eye is the Egyptian antique collection of kettles and international clocks displayed on the wall behind the counter. The hanging light bulbs and chandeliers provide ample lighting that accentuates the layout design giving the restaurant a warm hue. The décor has a black and maroon theme that complements the colourful decorative artefacts on the walls. Big sliding windows open up to a Venetian balcony that is lined with dainty flowers whose fresh scents waft discreetly into the restaurant. The cheerful staff complete the picture with their welcoming smiles making you feel at home instantly.   The other day, my friend and I decided to meet up at the restaurant and grab a bite. We were just in time for happy hour and my mind drifted to their famous blue lagoon cocktail made of blue curacao, vodka a dash of lime and orange juice garnished with a lemon slice dangling on the side. I simply love how they serve it in gigantic glasses. My friend settled for a traditional mojito-- white rum, sugar, lime juice, soda water, and mint served on the rocks. The mojito is simple cocktail that is nearly as easy to imbibe as it is to make. Both cocktails were a classic combination of sweetness, citrus, and mint flavours making them undeniably refreshing. We were ready to rock the happy hour.   I went with the chicken Kiev—pounded chicken fillet rolled in garlic and butter then coated with breadcrumbs to give it a crispy texture—served with mashed potatoes and steamed vegetables on the side. A golden stream of herb-flecked butter flowed out each time the knife pierced the crispy chicken breast. It was finger-licking good!   The impeccable service has not changed for the past four years or so that I have been dining at Moca Loca and that speaks volumes of their commitment to customer satisfaction. Orders are taken and delivered promptly and in a most gracious manner. We left the restaurant completely full, having had a great time and without digging too deep into our pockets.     I like my milkshakes the way I like my wallet – thick and never ending.