Students of Moi University’s School of Law in Eldoret, Uasin Gishu County, went on a rampage on Tuesday over missing marks and exclusion from the December graduation list. They paralysed learning and blocked Eldoret–Nakuru highway in their demand for inclusion in the list for the ceremony that will take place on December 20. NO TRANSCRIPTS The students from the Annex Campus, who numbered about 200, said they had sought in vain for talks with the administration on why their provisional transcripts were yet to be availed. Susan Kemundo said they were finding it hard to access their full marks and provisional transcripts to enable them confirm their results ahead of the graduation. “I am a troubled person. I have completed all the units required for me to graduate on December 20 but my name is not in the list of graduands."   Student leader Nelson Mandela said, “We toiled for four years only to be told we are missing marks in certain subjects, just two weeks to the graduation ceremony. This is very unfair. We need an explanation from the university's authorities." Mr Mandela said that to make matters worse, dean John Chebii declined to hold talks with them to explain and resolve the problem. “Affected students are in a dilemma as all the concerned persons at the School of Law, including the dean, are nowhere to be seen to shed light on the matter,” he said. The dean's phones were switched off so he could not be reached for comment.   PROTEST ILLEGAL Earlier, administration and regular police officers in combat gear were forced to fire live bullets to disperse the students who blocked traffic along the highway for at least three hours. Eldoret South police boss Richard Omanga, who led the operation, declared the demonstration illegal and warned them against barricading the road. He asked the students to use the right channels to demand their rights, instead of blocking the road, a move which he said will not be condoned. Mr Omanga warned that police officers will have no option but to use the full force of the law in their bid to ensure smooth flow of traffic. “We will not allow you to close the highway and disrupt the flow of traffic as that is tantamount to breaking the law. If you have issues with the university, use the right channels to air your complaints. Do not disturb innocent motorists and other road users,” he told the protesters.   Successive governments have sought to quell student dissent using unnecessary force.