He operates a stable of just seven or eight horses at Parx Racing, but trainer, Luis Carvajal Jr. is currently preparing to contest the biggest race of his career. Imperial Hint, a 5-year-old son of Imperialism, is hoping to put connections on a lifetime ride, as they bring the heavy favourite to Churchill Downs for the 2018 Breeders' Cup Sprint on Saturday. A two in a million spot for Imperial Hint, who gave Carvajal, and owner, Raymond Mamone, their first graded stakes G3 General George at Laurel Park. This season the dark bay has won four of his five starts, including a pair of crazily easy Grade 1's, Vanderbilt and Vosburgh. The only issue has been Imperial Hint's diminutive size - the colt stands only 15 hands tall. ASPIRATIONS Imperial Hint is being partnered in the TwinSpires Sprint, by Hall of Fame jockey, Javier Castellano, starting gate post 5. A native of Chile, Carvajal first thought he might follow his father into the saddle as a jockey. Luis Carvajal Sr. won approximately a thousand races in Chile, a significant number considering the limited racing opportunities. Carvajal Jr. quickly grew too tall for those aspirations but had already fallen in love with horse racing. Seeing his son's interest in the sport, in 1988 Carvajal Sr. decided to bring him to the United States, where the opportunities for a career would be much better than in Chile. Carvajal Jr., found work at the track for Angel Penna. Trainer, John Sadler's, Accelerate , galloped 1 1/2 miles as he moves towards the $6 million Breeders' Cup Classic. FIRST TURN Javier Meza, his regular exercise rider was on top. Accelerate is drawn on the far outside in a fourteen horse field. He shouldn't be bothered out there, and should be able to move into whatever is best position possible on the first turn. Axelrod (Nikki Diodoro), galloped round Churchill Downs, as a final trial for the Classic. Catholic Boy did some walking and trotting in readiness. All thoroughbreds, have different ways of groundwork build-ups. With no Triple Crowner, Justify, from Bob Baffert's stable, this event is actually anyone's guess. It is brilliantly competitive.  