It is going to be a long wait for three suspects facing two high-profile murder charges after they were denied bond as their co-accused were released from custody. For Joseph Kuria Irungu alias Jowie, he will have to wait until June next year for the trial to begin while his co-accused and fiancée, TV journalist Jacque Maribe, was set free on Wednesday evening after the court granted her a cash bail of Sh1 million and three sureties. The two have denied murdering Monicah Kimani, 28, at Lamuria Gardens Apartments in Kilimani on September 19. Migori Governor Okoth Obado, charged with killing his girlfriend Sharon Otieno was also released on strict bond terms. REMAIN IN CUSTODY The co-accused, his personal assistant Michael Oyamo and Mr Caspal Obiero, a clerk at the Migori county government, will remain in custody until May when their trial will start. While denying Mr Irungu bail, Justice James Wakiaga said; “Having taken into account the material placed before the court, the submission by the advocates for the first accused, the family and the State, and the authorities in support of the said submissions which I have looked at in detail, I am satisfied and find that the prosecution has placed before the court strong and adequate compelling reasons to enable me deny the first accused the enjoyment of his constitutional right to bail which I hereby do.” The judge said Mr Irungu will remain in custody during the period of his trial. According to Justice Wakiaga, the picture that emerges of Mr Irungu from the prosecution’s affidavit and the pre-bail report, is that of a male version of “slay queen”. He said for lack of better terminology, “I shall call him a “woman eater”. EVIDENCE Evidence tabled in court showed that he was living in Maribe’s house in Lang’ata, Nairobi, driving her car and with no known source of income since 2017 when he provided security to some Jubilee politicians. Mr Irungu’s last known employment as per his affidavit was in Dubai where he had been living between 2012-2017. “It is in Dubai where he seems to have strong social ties as while there he managed to secure employment for three named persons, including his brother and a brother of his former girlfriend, who he was living with in Buruburu before he left for Dubai,” the judge noted. READ: Maribe freed as 'Jowie' remanded - VIDEO And although his siblings had indicated that they were likely to find him an alternative accommodation, the judge said there was no evidence before him to support the said preposition. SECURITY FIRM “The accused has no known assets in the country save for an intention to set up a private security firm and, therefore, I find him to be with no fixed abode, lacking any deep emotional, occupation or economic ties in the country and is likely to abscond should an opportunity arise. The mere fact that he is willing to surrender his passport is no guarantee that he cannot leave the country,” Justice Wakiaga said. On Mr Oyamo and Mr Obiero, Justice Jessie Lesiit said, “I find that there are compelling reasons not to grant the 2nd and 3rd accused bail at this stage. I find releasing them may send fear, anxiety to potential witnesses and, therefore, lead to intimidation of which may adversely affect the case”. She said the likelihood of them absconding cannot be underrated and that their release is likely to disturb public order, peace and therefore, public security. TWO SURETIES Mr Obado was ordered to deposit in court a cash bail of Sh5 million. In addition he was ordered provide two sureties of Sh5 million each and deposit all his travel documents including his Kenyan, East African and diplomatic passports in court. Other strict terms is that the Migori county boss should not go 20 kilometres near the Homa Bay county boundary. Meanwhile, Ms Maribe was told to keep off anchoring news because according to the prosecution, she was an influential person and her appearance on the screens is likely to intimidate of influence witnesses.   Obado's movements will be severely limited after judge's tough bail terms.