Embattled Nyandarua County Assembly Speaker Ndegwa Wahome  has obtained a court order allowing him to conduct House business. Mr Wahome moved to court after he and other MCAs were barred from accessing the assembly premises by heavily armed police officers on Wednesday. “Pending hearing and determination of this application inter-partes, this honourable court is pleased to issue temporary order of injunction restraining the Defendant/Respondent or agents from interfering with the smooth-running of the functions of the Nyandarua County Assembly by the newly elected Speaker (Plaintiff/Applicant) pending hearing and determination of the application herein,” reads the court order issued in Nyahururu by Justice Rosaline Wendo. OUSTED Mr Ndegwa was blocked from entering the assembly when the MCAs elected Gathure Wambui as acting speaker. “The election of the new Speaker marks the beginning of the end of leadership wrangles in our county, which is a continuation from the last regime. The fights paralysed developments in the last regime. I will work with all MCAs, treat them equally and restore the dignity of the House,” said Mr Gathure. Governor Francis Kimemia welcomed the changes in the assembly leadership. “The people of Nyandarua are tired of endless wrangles and now demand services, irrespective of the differences among members of the county Assembly. Disagreements should be resolved amicably without affecting service delivery to Wanjiku who elected leaders to serve them,“ he said. The move comes just days after a high-profile ceasefire meeting convened by Health Cabinet Secretary Cecily Kariuki to end the leadership wars in the Nyandarua County Assembly failed. Ms Kariuki met with the county's top officials in an effort to ease an impasse that had paralysed business in the house for three months. Ms Kariuki’s attempt to end the wrangles raised eyebrows in some quarters, with some political analysts and ward representatives reading a sinister motive. “We read a hidden agenda in Ms Kariuki’s entry. The new developments and political climate prove that the meeting was not in good faith. There were some predetermined decisions,” said former Ol Kalou Town Council Chairman Wanyaga Mwangi. “If left alone, the MCAs can solve their problems amicably. The CS should come clear and publicly declare her interest in this matter, and her political interest in the 2022 General Election," he added. His sentiments were echoed by Shamata MCA Gitau Njamba, who said Ms Kariuki and the local MPs have already taken sides. “The MPs cannot dictate to us on assembly matters. They were elected just like us," said Mr Njamba, who described Ms Kariuki as a "stranger" from Embu. “She has failed to bring development to Nyandarua. Let her concentrate on her Embu home county. We know she has a personal interest in this matter," added the MCA. Ms Kariuki has not publicly declared an interest in any Nyandarua seat in the 2022 elections, but she is widely rumoured to be a potential candidate. On Tuesday, Governor Kimemia and Speaker Wahome Ndegwa skipped an important event organised by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission in Ol Joro Orok to co-chair a meeting during which they communicated the decisions of the previous day's meeting to the Assembly. During the meeting, the governor pleaded with the MCAs to accept the ceasefire formula to enable House business to resume. He expressed concern about the lack of activity in the House and told the MCAs that they will be judged by what they deliver to the electorate. “I appeal for sanity to prevail in the Assembly for Nyandarua to progress. The fights in the Assembly are not doing us any good. That is not what Nyandarua people want," he said. “We will eventually get a solution to all this. This matter cannot continue forever. As leaders, we are disappointed by what is happening," said Ms Gitau. The team that met Ms Kariuki comprised Ms Gitau Governor Francis Kimemia, his deputy Cecilia Mbuthia, Speaker Wahome Ndegwa, Senator Mwangi Githiomi and the county's five MPs: David Kiaraho (Ol Kalou), Jeremiah Kioni (Ndaragwa), Michael Muchira (Ol Joro Orok), Amos Kimunya (Kipipiri) and Kwenya Thuku (Kinangop). Meanwhile, it also emerged that external forces are heavily funding and fuelling the wars ahead of the 2022 elections.   The speakers have been accused of gross misconduct and abuse of office.