Kenya Lionesses finished 12th and last after going down to Fiji 17-5 in the 11th place play-off of the Women’s Dubai Sevens on Friday. Janet “Shebesh” Okello’s try failed to rescue the Lionesses from the jaws of defeat as the Fijians touched down three tries. Mereula Torooti landed a brace of tries as Naina Baleca scored the other. The Lionesses had lost to Spain 24-7 in the semi-final of the Challenge Trophy to drop to the 11th place play-off. Ingrid Algar handed Spain the lead with a try after superb phases display but the Lionesses turn on the screws as Janet Okelo staged a good ruin, shifting outside the Spanish defence to score. Kenya and Spain were level 7-7 at the break. The Lionesses staged some good tackles to keep the Spaniards at bay but not for long. Barbara Pla went on attack but Lionesses defence dragged her back but Olivia Fresneda would sneak through to land. Patricia Garcia turned the ball over the right-hand corner to Algar, who dotted down to score. Iera Echebarria then clinched the game for Spain with a try at the far corner after a superb offload from Beatriz Dominguez Sanchez. Kevin Wambua's charges dropped to Challenge Trophy after they lost to New Zealand 34-7, Ireland 27-12 and Russia 19-0 in Pool "A". Grace Adhiambo converted her own try for Kenya’s only points against New Zealand’s Black Ferns. Despite their improved skill set and defence drills, Ireland proved the better side against the Lionesses. Janet “Shebesh” Okello opened up the scores with a well worked try giving the Lionesses a 7-0 lead before Emily Murphy dotted down three tries for the Irish with one being converted successfully. Captain Philadelphia Olando landed the Lionesses second and final try in this match before Eve Higgins scored a brace handing Ireland the 27-12 win. New Zealand beat Canada 26-14 in a pulsating final to win a fourth Dubai Rugby Sevens title and increase their lead at the top of the HSBC World Rugby Women's Sevens Series 2019 standings.   Shujaa lost 43-12 to Fiji in their last Pool "B" match.