General Service Unit (GSU) begin their hunt for a record 13th Kenya Volleyball Federation National League title with an eye on next year’s Africa Club Championships. The soldiers feel they have unfinished business in the continental tournament organized by the Confederation of African Volleyball. GSU finished fifth in this year's Africa Club Championships after losing 3-1 to champions Al Ahly of Egypt. “We have unfinished business in the club championships because we want to prove that Kenyan men’s teams can do as well as the ladies in continental tournaments,” head coach Gideon Tarus said on Wednesday. "We lost to Al Ahly (3-1) in the quarter- final and we were the only team that won a set against them. “The fact that they went ahead to win the championship shows we just need to work on our mindset and we can challenge the big boys in Africa.” The 12-time champions, who finished first in the regular season unbeaten, begin their play-offs campaign with a tricky fixture against Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) on Saturday at the Kasarani Indoor Arena. The para-military side will then take on Kenya Defence Forces on Sunday before facing Kenya Prisons in the last match of the tournament that has adopted a round robin format. Tarus is confident of sealing the sole ticket to the continental tournament, but reckons they must start brightly with victory against the ports men. “KPA is a very unpredictable side so we are going to approach that game cautiously. It is very important that we win our first game because it will give us a sense of direction.” Despite dropping only one point in the regular season for a tally of 44 in the 15-team league, Tarus is wary of the threat posed by their opponent in the playoffs. “We did very well in the league but the play-off is a different ball game,” he said. “We have prepared very well and are ready for any opponent that comes our way. However, we shall not underrate any team.” Tarus will rely on the ever-green skipper David "Tonje" Kirwa to lead his young team. Experienced libero Alex Kariuki has also been recalled to the team for the play-offs to assist Noah Bett in reception and floor defence. The budding middle blocker Simon "Kosirai" Kipkorir will be making his playoff bow this weekend while setter Brian Meli is expected to start ahead of Nicholas Lagat. GSU commandant Douglas Kanja yesterday promised to better the team’s preparations for next year’s Africa club championships. “As a unit, we have great respect for this team because they always do us proud in national and international tournaments,” he said.  