Three Chinese nationals were charged on Monday with offering a Sh500,000 bribe to an inspector of police and his team for favour in the investigation on fraud at the Mombasa terminus. The three are employees of the China Roads and Bridges Corporation (CRBC) at the terminus of the standard gauge railway in Miritini. DENIAL The three are Li Gen, who is in charge of transport, security manager Li Xiaowu and Sun Xin, a staff member. They were charged with the offence of giving a bribe, following consent by Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Haji. The three faced another count of offering a Sh200,000 bribe while Mr Xiaowu faced a similar charge in a third count. The accused denied the charges before Mombasa Chief Magistrate Julius Nang'eya. RELEASE The prosecution, through Renson Ingonga and Jami Yamina, opposed their release saying they were flight risks. Mr Ingonga argued that the accused are foreigners with no fixed abode. He and Mr Yamina said that if the accused leave the jurisdiction of the court, they will not come back since there is no treaty between Kenya and China that would see them return for the trial. “The fears of the accused being flight risks is merited. Where mutual legal assistance is not agreed upon between Kenya and China, the issue should be considered seriously,” said Mr Ingonga. Mr Yamina urged the court to note that the SGR is a flagship project anchored on Vision 2030, which is of immense public interest. “It could be prejudicial at this stage to release the accused on bail,” he said, adding the accused are also suspects in a case of interference with witnesses. DEFENCE Through lawyer Nelson Sitonik, the suspects sought to be released on bond saying they would abide by all conditions set by the court. Mr Sitonik further said the three live at the SGR Mombasa terminus and have no intention of jumping bail. “They reside in the terminus. Within it is a police station. They are willing to be reporting daily to the officer in charge at the terminus,” he said, and added that the accused have no intention of interfering with investigations. The three will be remanded at Port Police Station in Mombasa until November 30, when a ruling on their release will be issued. Meanwhile, the Chinese Embassy in Kenya has sent its officers to check on the three. The embassy issued a statement saying it hopes Kenyan authorities will protect their legal rights. COMPLEX WEB A suspected multi-million-shilling ticketing fraud has hit the Mombasa-Nairobi train service with detectives investigating a complex web that involves insiders skimming off a significant portion of revenue from each trip, the Nation can reveal. On Friday, things took a dramatic turn when detectives of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission in Mombasa arrested the three Chinese nationals and their four Kenyan counterparts, all employees of the CRBC. The Kenya Railways Corporation earlier directed the CRBC, the operator of Madaraka Express, to take action against employees found to have interfered with ticketing. The action came after the Nation published a story detailing a multimillion-shilling ticketing fraud at the train service. The complex web, according to the article, involves insiders skimming off a significant portion of revenue generated from every trip, with indications that Sh1 million is lost daily.   Complex web allegedly involves insiders skimming off a significant portion of revenue from each trip.