The police were Wednesday allowed to detain quack James Mugo Ndichu, alias Dr Mugo wa Wairimu, for 10 days as they complete investigations into his activities. Mr Mugo was presented before Principal Magistrate Bernard Nzakyo but was not required to plead to the charges because investigations are not complete. Prosecutor Jacqueline Njagi told the court that Mr Mugo was facing a another court case, which is coming up next month. The prosecutor said the police needed at least 14 days to complete the investigations, and among the charges they were likely to prefer against Mugo are running a clinic without a licence, practising medicine when he is not a qualified doctor and obtaining money from patients through false pretence. TORTURE CLAIMS Mr Mugo, who was not represented, did not object to the application but said10 days was too long. He also asked the court to summon the officers who arrested him on Tuesday evening, claiming they had tortured him. He was arrested at around 8.30pm and claimed that the four police officers, whose names he cannot remember although he can identify them, treated him in an “inhumane and degrading manner”. Mr Mugo also wondered why the police had not charged him, yet a charge sheet had already been prepared at the police station. The court advised him to make a formal application but directed that he be treated in custody. According to Ms Njagi, Mr Mugo is likely to interfere with would be witnesses and he previously absconded court although he was later released on bond. The court ordered him detained for 10 days at Pangani Police Station. The case will be mentioned on November 23. Last week, two students said to be Mr Mugo’s employees were charged with operating Millan Clinic without a licence, practising medicine when they are not qualified, and running a pharmacy and a laboratory yet they are not licensed. Ms Risper Auma Ogony and Mr Victor Gathiru Kamunya denied a total of seven counts. Their case comes up Thursday when a pre-bail report will be tabled in court.   Mr Mugo is being detained at Pangani Police Station.