As children, we learn some life skills which we never really forget — such as riding a bicycle or swimming. But how often do we learn at a young age how to save and invest and plan our finances for ourselves and our loved ones? Yet, certain financial skills, such as making investment decisions, impact our longer-term life choices. Starting to invest early is probably one of the basic financial lessons one needs to imbibe at an early age because the longer one lets one’s money grow, the more it grows. As Albert Einstein said: “Compound interest is the eighth wonder of the world and the most powerful force in the universe.” Once we start early, the next crucial investment idea is the knowledge that capital preservation is key to generating sustainable long-term returns. Yet, knowingly or unknowingly, many of us still find ourselves trying to “time the market” and sometimes “picking up coins in front of a proverbial steam roller”, at the cost of ignoring the massive risks that could come to pass. Part of the reason is the Fomo (fear of missing out) factor. PORTFOLIO Some of us also have the tendency to cash out too early, or panic and sell during market drawdowns. By doing so, we run the risk of not being invested in markets, thus missing strong market rebounds as and when they happen. How confident are we of perfectly timing the market over the longer term? This is why we believe “boring is beautiful” in the world of investing. For a moderate risk investment portfolio, staying invested for the longer term and targeting annual returns of four to six percent — oftentimes thought of as “boring”, especially within the racy world of chasing double-digit returns — can be the best strategy to offset any temporary drawdowns in one’s portfolio. It is important to remember that a 50 percent portfolio loss (suffered from pursuing an aggressive investment strategy) would need a 100 percent portfolio gain to get back to where we started! RISK Besides compounding and long-term investing, the other core financial idea is “diversification”. Nobel prize-winning economist Harry Markowitz, credited with modern portfolio theory, described diversification as “the only free lunch in finance”. It’s the concept of not “putting all your eggs in the same basket”, but spreading the risk across different asset classes. This idea has two major goals: To help increase the expected return on investments, while taking less risk, and to avoid large losses. Hence, as a guide, a balanced portfolio will generally have some mix of equities, bonds, alternative assets and cash. The right balance depends on one’s return goals, appetite for risk and liquidity needs. It is good discipline to rebalance the portfolio once or twice a year so that it stays diversified over time and various allocation weights do not drift from the desired allocation. ROADMAP It is also helpful to consider lifecycle investing, which suggests that across different stages of our lives, we have different financial needs and risk profiles depending on our situation. In general, the younger we are, the more we are able and willing to take risks on our investments (since we have more years to grow our wealth and recover from drawdowns). In summary, the fundamentals of investing relies on a few core principles such as starting as early as possible, staying put for the long-term and applying a well-crafted and disciplined roadmap based on diversification, regular portfolio rebalancing and tailoring our allocations to our life-cycle needs. Internalising these guidelines should lay a strong foundation for one’s financial future. Mr Kelshiker is Head of Portfolio Strategy at Standard Chartered Private Bank.  