It's official! Cameroon has been stripped of the rights to host the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon). "Today, the @CAF_Online Executive Committee met in Accra, Ghana and has decided that @FecafootOfficie could not host the 2019 Total Africa Cup of Nations," read a tweet from the official Confederation of African Football (Caf) Twitter handle on Friday. The hosting of the Afcon was part of the agenda in the Caf Extraordinary Executive Committee meeting held in Accra, Ghana on Friday. Two reports that were key to the final decision regarding Cameroon were tabled namely; report of inspection visits of the security committee from October 27 to November 1 and a report of the inspection visit from November 11-15. "After significant debate and having received detailed updates from numerous inspection visits over nearly 18 months, CAF has noted that a number of compliance conditions have not been met. In addition, after having heard from representatives of the governmental and sports authorities of Cameroon, and reviewed the latest progress on preparations, CAF notes the gap between the requirements of hosting the AFCON and realities on the ground," began the statement from Caf. Cameroon is experiencing a tense security situation with persistent attacks by Boko Haram jihadists in the north and a conflict between the army and separatists in the two English-speaking regions. "Furthermore, after hearing the conclusions of the CAF Security Inspection Team during their most recent visit to Cameroon, CAF concludes that the Africa Cup of Nations could not be exposed to any issues that could impact on the success of the most prestigious African competition. "After having considered that a simple postponement of the tournament was impossible because of CAF’s contractual commitments, and the importance of maintaining the competition calendar, the CAF Executive Committee decided that the next edition of the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations could not be held in Cameroon," read another part of the statement. Caf will now invite countries to submit official bids to host the tournament in June 15-July 13 after ruling that Cameroon will not be allowed to appeal. The new host will be decided by December 31.   Kenya is assured of finishing within the top two places in Group "F".