President Uhuru Kenyatta has warned that his government will stop at nothing to ensure culprits in the National Youth Service (NYS) scandal are punished and the proceeds recovered. He assured that his administration will deal firmly with corruption, saying no public servant will be allowed to misuse funds set aside for young people in the service. "It is regrettable to see some greedy individuals divert resources from the NYS kitty for their personal gains. I want to assure you that we will do anything within our power to nail these culprits," said the Head of State. He spoke Friday when he presided over a graduation at NYS College in Gilgil, Nakuru County. A total of 16,487 recruits graduated. “We will not allow money meant to help our young people, to be pocketed by unscrupulous individuals,” he said. NYS SCANDAL TRIAL He challenged those in charge of NYS to ensure that resources are utilised properly. The President's warning comes amid the ongoing trial of former Youth Principal Secretary Lillian Omollo, former NYS Director-General Richard Ndubai and other suspects charged with theft of funds at the Service. “We will not continue to allow this kind of behaviour,” the President said even as he commended NYS officers for their hardwork. He also urged the graduands to be responsible citizens once they leave the college and participate in the development of the economy, noting that his administration is committed to improving the lives of young citizens, who play a key role in the success of his Big Four agenda. "We must protect the interests of our youth as we tap their potential since we understand their contribution to the country's economy and their role in the success of our Big Four agenda," he said. The President urged the National Assembly to pass a bill seeking to restructure NYS. The National Youth Service Bill, 2018, contains a raft of measures aimed at strengthening the operations and management of NYS among them the transformation of the department into a body corporate. The graduation ceremony was attended by Public Service CS Margaret Kobia, acting NYS Director-General Matilda Sakwa, Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui among other dignitaries.   Aside from the top brass at the agency, 17 middle-level and junior level officials are being held.