A fire that gutted Siloam Education Centre in Nairobi’s Mukuru-Kwa Njenga slum in Embakasi South just two days prior to the start of the KCPE exams seems to have only fuelled the candidates' resolve to do their level best, and they did not disappoint. Out of the 68 candidates, 61 candidates garnered more than 350 marks. EMERGED TOP The head teacher, Ms Janet Malika, said Amaliani Boniface Musira (16) emerged top of the class with 412 marks followed by Rachel Mutheu (408), Mutemi Julius Makuu garnered (402) and Mwendwa Timothy Kyalo (400) in that order. “Amaliani saved his parents by waking them up after an eight-storey building came tumbling down at Pipeline estate in Embakasi in August last year,” Ms Malika said. Located at the heart of the sprawling Mukuru Kwa Njenga slum, sandwiched between shanties, the school building is a makeshift structure built with iron sheets. It was started in 2013 and has a population of 3,000 pupils. Amaliani said he could not believe that he had topped the class due to the stiff competition he faced from his colleagues.   REVISED EVERYDAY “I revised everyday using my timetable. I remember on August last year when I was studying that I heard something like an earthquake. The building was collapsing and I rushed to wake up my mum, dada and my two sisters. We were lucky to escape unhurt. The 8-storey building came down. I think I could have achieved more marks if I were not traumatized by the event.” Amaliani remarked. Ms Malika noted that Amaliani was highly disciplined and a class prefect. He said hopes to become a doctor and aspires to join Butere Boys or Alliance High School. A 14-year-old Rachel Mutheu, who was second, said her mother motivated her and attributed her success to this. “Mum told me to work extra and know that what a man can do, a woman can also do and may be do it better,” Mutheu said.   VERY ACTIVE She said she was very active in the debating club and anticipates to join Kenya High or State House Girls. She hails from Mwingi, in Kitui County and would like to be a banker in future. Parents, teachers and pupils sang and danced together in joy as the three top performers were carried shoulder-high.     Property of unknown value was reduced to ashes.