Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong’o’s nephew has claimed that his life is in danger. Mr Kenneth Okuthe, who recently won an inheritance case against the Nyong’os, told Nation that a stranger recently trailed him as he followed up on another family case in Mombasa. He said he has reported to the police three different instances where he felt that his life was threatened ever since he initiated the case on property inheritance. “A stranger approached me at the hotel where I was staying in Mombasa and warned me to go slow on the cases against the Nyong'os," he said. Last month, the High Court Governor Nyong’o and his sister Risper Nyagoy to include all children belonging to their two sisters as beneficiaries of their late father’s multimillion-shilling property. In her ruling, Justice Tripsisa Cherere also revoked the administrative letters and certificate of confirmation of grant that placed Prof Nyong’o and Dr Nyagoy as the sole controllers of the estate and appointed one of the nephews, Mr Okuthe as co-administrators of the late Hewson Shimei Nyong’o's estate. She further directed Prof Nyong’o and his other siblings who have been benefitting from the property to file an account of Shimei's estate and certificate of confirmation that had been issued to them, about four years ago that gave them the power to control the estate. They were directed to file within 45 days. In the case, Prof Nyong’o’s nephews Mr Okuthe and Geoffrey Omondi had sued him and his sister Dr Nyagoy for leaving some relatives out of the list of beneficiaries of their late father’s estate. They told the court that Prof Nyong’o and Dr Nyagoy were made administrators of the property after a local chief certified their mother and other siblings as true beneficiaries. Mr Omondi and Ms Fiona Atieno are the late Judith Nyong’o’s children, Prof Nyongo’s sister. The governor’s other sister is Margaret Awuor, who is Mr Okuthe’s mother. She died died in 1994. After their parents’ death, the two were brought up by their grandfather Shimei, who died on November 10, 2006. He did not leave a will behind. The property under contention includes 100 acres of land in Miwani and flats beside Jogoo road in Nairobi. Others are parcels of land are in Manyatta, Tamu, Milimani estate and East Rata in Seme Sub-County, Kisumu. Justice Cherere said that she was satisfied that the petitioners were entitled property of the deceased and that the grant that gave the two (Prof Nyong’o and Dr Nyagoy) control of the multimillion-shilling property was obtained illegally.   They say they were left out of the list of beneficiaries for their grandfather's property.