Family gatherings at Godwin Wachira's house are characterised by words such as control sticks, rudder, throttle lever, turbulence and other aviation jargon. Everyone in the family is a pilot except his wife who runs the Flying Training Centre located at Wilson Airport as an account manager where they have a fleet of 15 aeroplanes. They set up the centre 10 years ago with his three children being pilots. An abandoned runway at Nyaribo airstrip in Nyeri has birthed the first aviation school in Mt Kenya region that is run by a family of pilots. “We were flying with my wife Catherine when we spotted the airstrip that has a beautiful runway but it was abandoned for a while and after extensive deliberations we found it conducive to offer aviation training,” said Captain Wachira, who has been a pilot for the last 34 years. TRAINING CENTRES The family has two more training centres at the coastal region with the Mt Kenya centre enrolling eight students. “We thought of opening a branch here in Nyeri because of the vast opportunities it offers as well as be part of the growth in the aviation industry,” he said. Mr Wachira and his two children have earned the title ‘captain’ which is a rank given once one is able to command an aircraft and fly on their own. “I was flying a lot with my children when they were young and I suppose that is how they developed interest in flying,” said Mr Wachira amid a chuckle. For more than five years, Nyaribo airstrip has not been in use. But the roaring sound of the planes being used to train the students in the area have opened the previously quiet village to business opportunities. BEST THING Mr Wachira said the best thing about training in Nyeri is that there is no traffic congestion meaning they have more time training rather than waiting on the take-off queues. “Nyeri has zero traffic compared to Nairobi and at the same time offers the best training atmosphere for cross-country navigation,” he said, adding that a majority of students in the Nairobi base have requested to transfer to Nyeri. “We charge Sh16,000 per hour,” he said. SAFEST MODE Ms Esther Kamande, a captain and instructor, said aviation was the next frontier as moving on air is the cheapest and safest mode of transport. “We are not where we ought to be but without looking at the cost of tickets, air is an opening space where more people are appreciating flights not as a luxury for the rich,” she said. Captain Leah Kihara, Mr Wachira’s daughter and the chief flight instructor, said one has to be passionate to be a pilot as it requires thinking critically and a lot of practice.   Passengers to pay Sh3,000 for a flight between Nyaribo Airstrip and Wilson Airport, Nairobi.