When I graduated in 2017, my family and friends organised a small thanksgiving party to celebrate my academic achievement. Towards the end of the event, one of my aunties rose holding a woven basket and announced that it was time to “greet” the graduate. I sat there beaming as envelopes poured into the basket and I thought to myself, “If this is the norm, I think I will go for two more degrees.” I was overwhelmed with the love and the generosity of my people. What stood out for me most was the group that decided to buy me other gifts besides the little brown envelopes. One cousin got me a chunky necklace that goes with almost everything in my wardrobe. Another one got me an African-print handbag that has made my life so convenient—it can fit my mini-laptop, a book and a change of clothes. He also threw in a cute dumbbell-shaped water bottle which I often carry to the gym. There was more jewellery, a leather purse and even an exclusive membership card to a museum library. I was amazed at how well they knew me because all those gifts resonated with my tastes and preferences. It made me realise that choosing a gift is actually an art that takes deliberate effort. FESTIVE SEASONAs we approach the festive season, I have been giving serious thought on how to gift my loved ones. I have started window-shopping because I plan to start buying presents early enough before the prices skyrocket as is their predictable Christmas fashion. Secondly, I spoke to Christine from Gift World Kenya in order to understand more on gifting and hopefully spread some cheer to friends and family this Christmas.  What are the three most important things to consider when choosing a gift? The occasion can be a useful guideline when selecting a purposeful gift. Next, you need to consider demographics such as gender, age and even the location of the recipient. Imagine gifting a heavy fur coat to someone who lives in places with very high temperatures such as parts of the coast region. Lastly, it is important to reflect on the personality of the recipient. Are they bold and expressive such that they would love that set of statement jewellery? Do they have a knack for punctuality and will greatly appreciate that designer watch?     What makes a gift special? A well-chosen gift appeals to the recipient’s emotions because it shows that the giver took time to consider the gift. When well cared for, a gift has the potential to last a lifetime, as a special reminder of an occasion, an individual or even an event. A gift is timeless.  Should one ask for a gift? Not ordinarily, and it is not really ideal. One may ask for a gift, especially from someone they share an intimate relationship with, but even then, it is usually when they have a specific preference. For instance, someone may offer to gift you a notebook or a mug then you may ask it be of a certain colour.    What should inform how much you spend on a gift? Your budget. There is no need to overspend or to borrow on an item that you can’t afford at the moment. The thoughtfulness that goes into the gift is what matters the most. Your relationship to the recipient; the intimacy and the nature of the relationship between the giver and the recipient is also important in considering how much to spend. The occasion – some occasions will require one to splurge on a pricey piece, owing to the enormity of the function, while others will not.    What are some of the best ideas you have come across for family and friends? Secret Santa setups for a family that adopted a child and dedicated all presents that year to the newest member of their family. It was adorable! Then there was one where a husband gave his wife an out-of-town holiday gift ticket while he stayed at home to look after the children. Such thoughtfulness is what makes a gift so special.  Is gift reciprocity a must? Not necessarily, because not everyone likes gifts. For example, someone who prefers quality time will be more fulfilled when you spend time with them as opposed to a physical gift, the price notwithstanding.   What should you do if the gift you give is declined or sent back?There are many reasons why a gift can be declined. For instance, it is illegal for government officials to receive, in their personal capacities, gifts of a particular value from individuals. Seek to establish the reason the gift was declined, if none is provided at the point of return. A clarification on this will help clear the air and prevent bad blood between the giver and the recipient.  How often should we gift? As often as we can. Gifts are kind gestures to remind people that we value and appreciate them. That is why there are gifts for all occasions from birthdays, anniversaries, house warming events, graduations, baby and bridal showers...opportunities to gift are simply endless.    Mbuya Maphosa has been, for my cousin and me, a most long-lasting Christmas memory.