Kenya Simbas hopes of qualifying for the 2019 Rugby World Cup went up in smoke after losing their second consecutive match of the Repechage qualifiers 42-17 to Hong Kong at the Stade Delort in Marseille, France on Saturday. It was the perfect response from Hong Kong who suffered a shock 26-19 defeat at the hands of Germany last Saturday. Kenya, who soaked in 10 tries to crush to Canada 65-19 in the opening match, will only be playing for pride against Germany in their last match of the qualifiers. Ian Snook's charges turned in a dismal display in the second half to give away a 12-7 first half lead. A pulsating brace of tries from Tony Onyango in addition to Elkeans Musonye’s sizzling try failed to save the Kenyans, who ae now out of contention with a match at hand against Germany next Friday. Canada are up against Germany in the other Repechage qualifying match where victory for the Canadians will place them in good stead of qualifying for Japan 2019. Victory for Germany against Canada will throw the qualifier open and take it to the wire. Kenya could spoil the party for Germany with victory in their last match while Hong Kong, who revived their hopes with a bonus victory against Kenya, will be out to nail Canada. With such results coming forth, then the winner will be decided on superior aggregate. That's why Germany will be eyeing to go all out against Kenya with bonus point victory.   Fly-half Thomas Lamboley scored a brace as Hong Kong ran in six converted tries against Kenya’s three tries, which Sammy Oliech only converted one. Kenya captain Wilson K’Opondo said they are very proud of the fight they put in. “It was a tough call unfortunately we are out of the World Cup but we will be back better. “We will head back to work on our weak points that made us let the game slip on their side, we always have our moment, we would like to play first but still close on but today, we lacked the technical capability,” K’Opondo said. “We would like to say a big thank you to all who supported us back home, we tried but unfortunately we couldn’t manage, we will be back strong,” Onyango put Kenya ahead before Oliech added the extras only for Kenya to stage a flowing phases, which saw Collins Injera set up Musonye to land lead 12-7 at the interval. Lamboley crossed over twice for Hong Kong with Toby Fenn, Nick Hewson, Lewis Werner and Max Denmark also getting a try apiece. "We are very excited about the last match. They bring everything and so we will. The game against Kenya was chaos, we lost our last three games and they really scared us," said Hong Kong captain James Cunningham.   The Canadians opened up with a 65-19 hammering of Kenya last Sunday.