Nondescripts registered a shock 20-14 win over Homeboyz at the RFUEA grounds while defending champions Kenya Commercial Bank and Kabras Sugar got off to flying starts as Kenya Cup rugby league got underway on Saturday. Playing without 13 key players, who are either with Kenya Simbas or Kenya Sevens, Homeboyz slumped to their first defeat in two years against Nondies. The last time Nondies beat Homeboyz was during the 2015/16 season when they won 20-12 at Jamhuri Showground, also on the opening day of the season. Martin Juma handed Nondies the lead from a penalty before stretching the lead to 10-0 when he converted Ernest Ngong’s try. Homeboyz dug in to score through Bush Mwale as Henry Ayaa added the extras. Ayaa would convert Stanley Isogol’s try for the Deejays to take the lead 14-10 at the break. Eric Gitau landed before Juma converted to add a drop goal to see Nondies triumph for four points on match-day one. “First games are always tricky but we must regroup to avoid dropping points again. But I am glad we picked a bonus point,” said Homeboyz coach Simon Odongo. “The first half pep-talk was vital since we reminded the boys of the work they have put in during pre-season." KCB beat newcomers Menengai Oilers 27-5 in the second double-header match at RFUEA as Kabras Sugar downed Mean Machine from the University of Nairobi 41-0 in Kakamega. In other matches, Impala Saracens battled to edge out Kenyatta University's Blak Blad 18-15 at Impala Sports Club while visiting Nakuru beat Strathmore Leos 20-15 at Madaraka. In Kakamega, Mark Sandaka, Felix Otieno and Hillary Odhiambo drilled a try each where one was converted to give them a 17-0 lead at the break. Charlton Mokua and Phillip Wokorachi resumed the hunt for Kabras with thrilling tries before Jacob Siwa and Hosea Ngesa went for similar to seal Machine’s fate. Kabras Coach Henley Du Plessis was elated at his team’s victory. “The boys played as per my instructions. It is good to win the first match of the season. It motivates the players,” he said. Mean Machine tactician Ramsfield Matekwa was graceful in defeat saying his charges committed numerous mistakes that proved costly. “We had many scoring chances but the boys kept on fumbling with the ball when they came closer to the try box,” observed Matekwa. Kenya Cup continues on Sunday at the RFUEA where Harlequins host Mwamba from 4pm. Results Kabras 41-0 Machine; Impala 18-15 Blad; KCB 27-5 Oilers; Nondies 20-14 Homeboyz; Strathmore 15-20 Nakuru. Sunday fixture Kenya Harlequins v Mwamba (4pm) - RFUEA  