As we hurtle towards the 2022 elections, it is an opportune moment to reflect on our national values, particularly with regard to some of our leaders now focused on self-interested calls for constitutional change and the building of tribal coalitions to be used as their vehicles to greatness. I carried out a benchmarking on national values with the nation of Bhutan nestled between China and India. On November 7, 2008, King Jigme Khesar of Bhutan, in his coronation address, said that “core values form a common thread that binds and guides the nation, especially in the wake of the ongoing democratic processes” (that were going on at the time). His deepest concern, he stated, was that “as the world changes, Bhutan may lose its fundamental values on which rests its character as a nation and people. TIMELESS GOAL As long as we continue to pursue the simple and timeless goal of being good human beings, we can ensure that our future generations for hundreds of years will live in happiness and peace.” I could not help but contrast this with Kenya’s reality of pursuing the ideals of democracy in an avalanche of unfortunate criminal theatrics such as the National Cereals and Produce Board maize scandal, the collapsed sugar industry and contaminated sugar imports fiasco, the schoolgirls’ pregnancy pandemic and its related ally in the rising ‘sponsor’ pandemic. There is also the unending National Youth Service tragicomedies and the annual exam theft shenanigans, among other depressing news arising from a debased and rudderless national value system. KINDNESS If Kenya had a King like that of Bhutan, who spoke of treasuring the qualities of “good human beings” namely honesty, kindness, charity, integrity, unity, respect for our culture and traditions, love for our country and for God, I wondered what he would tell his subjects. I suspect he would tell them that it is unfortunate that we have embraced the opposite of what it means to be a good human being. We have become a self-centred, short-sighted, destructive, greedy, dishonest, corrupt and continue to pursue short-term tribal based manipulation of the people in a quest to ascend to power. And the quest for power is to continue with the mass grabber mania that has become a norm among many of those in positions of responsibility. SUCCESSWe have become “bad human beings” who view the possession of wealth as the epitome of success even when that wealth is siphoned from public coffers in a sea of rampant and grinding poverty. This quagmire we find ourselves in is driven by poor values and the resultant repugnant poor behaviour. Bhutan can provide us with some lessons.The Government of Bhutan commissioned and carried out a National Values Assessment survey. The results were released in January 2009 and they indicated that the culture of Bhutan was driven by values that promote access to information and knowledge, and a commitment to the betterment of society. It also promotes intelligent stewardship of resources, being guided and united by a common set of values and a common direction, protection for the rights of the people to make political choices and moral structure. NATIONAL VALUE The top national value perceived was identified as continuous improvement. They used this values assessment to strengthen the positive values identified and to eliminate those that disable their quest for a better future for their people. In the midst of calls for changes in our Constitution, let us take Bhutan’s cue and carry out a values assessment that will form the basis for deciding the future we want first on a values perspective before tinkering with the Constitution. Any leaders displaying the values we detest should be soundly rejected; then and only then shall we have hope for a better future. Dr Mwangi is the managing director, Centre for Personal Leadership. drcaesarmwangi@gmail.com  