Duke Abuya scored twice as Kariobangi Sharks thumped Arta Solar7 of Djibouti 6-1 in their Caf Confederation Cup preliminary round first leg match at the Kasarani Stadium on Tuesday. This result means the Djibouti side must win the return leg set for Djibouti City by five clear goals to advance to the next phase of this competition. On face value, it will be easier for Manchester United to win this season's English Premier League title. Arta Solar7 coach Mussa Mawa said: " We struggled. Technically, they were far better than us especially on the flanks and had two strikers who were good at heading the ball. "I don't know (if we can win at home), they scored three goals in 15 minutes probably we will have to score 15 times in three minutes. The return leg will be a different game, different conditions, different weather and a pitch. We don't have grass there." His Sharks counterpart William Muluhya said: "It was a good game because my players settled fast and took their opportunities. We haven't achieved anything so we to to fight." Against arguably a technically and physically suspect opponent, Kenya's FKF SportPesa Shield champions found themselves 3-0 up in the opening quarter of an hour even without necessarily engaging third gear.     In fact, Sharks, coached by the youthful Muluhya didn't even miss lead striker and 2018 Kenyan Premier League player of the year Eric Kapaito, who sat out injured, as Duke Abuya, Sydney Lokale and Nixon Omondi got onto the scoresheet with the first three goals of the game. And after a continuous spell of domination via possession and chances, the hosts went on to add a fourth in the 38th minute, via Kenya international Patillah Omotto's free header off a Lokale corner kick.   But then, Tom Teka recklessly brought down Konenan Kanen in the danger area three minutes later and earned the visitors a penalty. The number nine thereafter woke up, dusted himself, and easily beat Gad Matthews with his team's first attempt on target. With a 4-1 half-time lead, the handful Solar7 fans in the stadium might have been forgiven for fearing the worst, with memories of Harambee Starlets 7-0 win over their Djibouti counterparts in 2006, or worse, Harambee Stars 9-1 drubbing over their male colleagues from Djibouti in 1998 coming to mind.   The second half was however a far less intense affair with Sharks seemingly keen to safe guard the status quo other than use more energy to search for more goals. But this didn't stop lead striker George Abege, formerly at Sony Sugar, easily tapping home an Abuya cross ten minutes after the break.   Fidel Origa then made it six in the dying moments of the match in what could be the easiest contest the youthful Kenyan team participate in this season. Sharks are certain to face sterner tests against Gor Mahia in the Kenyan Premier League Super Cup this weekend, plus top Ghana side Asante Kotoko potentially in the first round of the continental event.  