The Kenya Revenue Authority is enquiring about Sh423 million deposited into bank accounts belonging to Evans Kidero, which the former Nairobi governor says are donations from friends and supporters. Mr Kidero says in court documents that he is locked in an arbitration with the KRA over the money that is also the subject on an investigation by the anti-graft agency. He links the money to contributions from friends, supporters and well-wishers when he sought political office after leaving Mumias Sugar Company where he was CEO. “He admitted having received several contributions from friends, supporters and well-wishers to the tune of Sh423 million. This, he said, was the subject of an arbitration before the Kenya Revenue Authority,” said Justice Hedwig Ong’udi. The judge was making a ruling on Mr Kidero’s application seeking court protection against the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission’s (EACC) search and seizure of his property. The High Court on Tuesday ordered the EACC to release some of the property deemed to be "unrelated to the matter at hand" within 72 hours, meaning that the anti-graft body has leeway to decline release of any assets it feels important to its investigation. Mr Kidero has accused the commission of over-valuing his assets and falsely listing him as the owner of some prime property in a harassment campaign. He has denied ownership of Yala Towers in Nairobi’s central business district, 50 rental units in Kilimani Estate, a house in Lavington, seven apartments, a town house in Kisumu and eight vehicles. Mr Kidero claims that 15 of the 75 assets that the EACC has linked him to are owned by other individuals, including his spouse and late wife. While he admits to owning 60 of the assets the EACC has listed as his, the former governor argues that the property is worth Sh563.9 million and not Sh9 billion as the agency claims. Mr Kidero claims that most of his assets were acquired before he joined Mumias Sugar Company in 2004 and later served as Nairobi governor. The EACC said it had concluded investigations and was awaiting valuation by the Land ministry.   Anti-graft body says the former governor’s assets locally are worth Sh9 billion.