Kirinyaga County has produced the top candidates in Mt Kenya region as public and private schools fought for the top positions in this year’s KCPE exams results released by Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed Monday. Kathigiri Boarding School, a public school in Meru, and Nyeri Primary Complex, a public school in Nyeri, produced the top candidates in their respective counties. While the top two candidates were from Kirinyaga, Meru schools also produced many candidates who scored over 400 marks. Candidates from private schools in Kirinyaga County did better than their colleagues in public institutions in this year's KCPE exams. TOP CANDIDATE Ashley Wambui from Kutus Municipality Primary School led a crowd of top candidates drawn from private schools in the county with 447 marks out of the possible 500. After receiving the results, Wambui said she would like to join Kenya High School next year. "It is due to hard work, determination and discipline that I got those marks. I expected good performance," said Wambui amid ululations by teachers and parents. The school’s director Julius Wanjohi Mugo said they registered a mean score of 387 points. Wambui was closely followed by Ronnie Gathuku of Effort Junior School Kerugoya who scored 444 marks. The third position was jointly held by Emanuel Kironji and Victor Mwangi both from Effort Junior with 438 marks. In the neighbouring Alber School Kutus, Cynthia Nyaguthie Waweru scored 434 marks. The proprietor Alfred Nyaga said the school had a mean score of 396.04 marks and had registered 80 candidates. Over 45 pupils in the school scored over 400 marks. MERU Meru’s top public and private schools – Kathigiri Boarding and Fred’s Academy – produced the top candidates who tied at 442 marks. Both schools have been competing for the top slot in national exams with Kathigiri producing the second best candidate last year while Fred’s was the best school nationally in 2017. Debra Gakii of Kathigiri Boarding and Hilary Muriungi of Fred’s Academy each scored 442 marks. Kathigiri headteacher Eustace Micheni attributed the school’s success to hard work, team work, proper time management and adequate syllabus coverage followed by intensive revision. Nyeri Primary School, a public school, produced the top candidate in the region. Waihenya Elizabeth Wanjeri scored 441 marks as girls toppled boys to take the top five positions. Njeru Janet Kathomi of Nyeri Good Shepherd scored 436 marks as Maina Adrian Kahacho of Nyeri Primary School was third with 435 marks.PRAYER, HARD WORKNelius Wangari of Nyeri Good Shepherd scored 428 marks and attributed her good performance to prayer and hard work. "I prayed a lot and worked really hard. I hope to join Kenya High School," she said. Private schools seemed to perform better than the public schools with Nyeri Primary being the only public school producing top candidates. In Isiolo County, families, relatives and friends of two girls who emerged top in this year’s KCPE celebrated shortly after the results were released. The girls, Britney Kirimi Mwenda, 13, from High Vision Junior School scored 421 marks while Sakina Salad Kikuyu, 12, from Little Angels School scored 416 marks. Sakina’s father, Dr Salad Kikuyu Sarite, and her mother, Habiba Halkano, could not hide their joy as they celebrated their daughter’s achievement, whom they termed as God-fearing, hardworking, obedient and disciplined. Britney’s mother, Caroline Kirimi, said her daughter has been performing well. MURANG'A In Murang'a County, the top candidate was Muchiri Brian Nderitu from Elite School who got 441 marks. Position two went to Wachira Micky Muchoki from Technology Primary School who scored 437 marks. The school’s headteacher Beatrice Wachira said boys took the first three positions compared to last year where girls scooped all the three top positions. In Embu County, Tenri Primary School and Bonanza School produced the top boy and girl respectively in this year’s KCPE exam. The traditional county giants appeared to have shared top slots, producing eight out of top 10 best performers. Other top schools were Good Shepherd Academy, St Peters Ishiara and St Petroc Academy which produced most of the pupils with over 400 marks. NORTHERN KENYA Elsewhere, schools in northern Kenya posted impressive results with many candidates posting 400 marks and above. Moyale Junior Academy in Marsabit County produced eight candidates with more than 400 marks where the top candidate, Mohammed Isack scored 430 marks. Billan Mohamed Diis from Furqan Integrated Academy in Wajir County was the second best performer in the northern region with 426 marks. However, Mandera County posted low marks with the top candidate, Fartum Alio Mohamed of Alqalan Primary School scoring 383 marks.  Reporting by Isabel Githae, Gitonga Marete, David Muchui, Ndungu’s Gachane, Joseph Wangui, Charles Wanyoro and Nicholas Komu, Manatse Otsialo, Vivian Jebet and Bruhan Makong   Rawlings Odhiambo and Olive Mwea each score 453 marks, the highest in 2018 KCPE exam.