Rift Valley leaders have reportedly mooted a grand plan to consolidate support for DP William Ruto’s 2022 bid, with indications that recent overtures targeting former Bomet governor Isaac Ruto are aimed at propping up his Chama Cha Mashinani (CCM) party as an alternative political vehicle should things fall apart in Jubilee. The DP has turned to Isaac Ruto, a former ally-turned-foe, in a grand scheme to ensure that all the Rift Valley votes are proverbially in one basket. On Thursday, the CCM party leader hosted prominent Rift Valley leaders and key allies of the DP at his rural residence in Chepalungu constituency. They later said that the high-powered delegation had been on a mission to try and bring the vocal politician back to the Jubilee fold. The Nation has, however, established that the talks included the need to revamp CCM as a viable alternative in 2022. STRONG SIGNALS The meeting took place on the same day that President Uhuru Kenyatta was sending the strongest signals yet that having the DP as his successor was not a foregone conclusion. “Some people think that just because I am retiring, I have nothing to say. I will say something at the right time. And some people will get shocked,” President Kenyatta said in Nyeri, a statement that sent jitters in Mr Ruto’s corner. While President Kenyatta and Mr Ruto enjoyed a camaraderie in their first term, it hasn’t been so since their re-election — particularly after the March 9 handshake between Mr Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. The Bomet meeting was the culmination of a series of meetings the former governor has had with the Deputy President and other CCM party leaders for the last one year. SEPARATE MEETINGS Governors Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu), Paul Chepkwony (Kericho), Samwel Tunai (Narok), John Lonyangapuo (West Pokot), and Kericho Senator Haroun Cheruiyot held three separate meetings at the CCM party leader's home. Chepalungu MP Gideon Koskei (CCM), Mr Farouk Kibet (an aide to the Deputy President), 11 CCM Members of County Assembly and the party’s former aspirants for various positions in the last General Election also attended the meeting. “It is true we want CCM to be spruced up to have a national outlook,” said a top party official who did not want to be named. He added that the plan was not for CCM to be taken over, but it would be “supported” in the next few years just in case things fell apart in Jubilee. The former governor could not be drawn into discussing the details of the meeting, only saying that CCM would be a major political player in the next General Election. DEVOLUTION AGENDA He said: “The party is open to discussion on development and implementation of the devolution agenda and strengthening the fabric holding society together.” He added: “My handshake with the President and his Deputy happened at Kapkatet and I have been working closely with them since then.” Bomet Governor Dr Joyce Laboso yesterday said she supports the move to bring in her nemesis for the “bigger picture of ensuring the Deputy President ascends to the Presidency in the next General Election.” Mr Mandago, the Uasin Gishu Governor, said his former Bomet counterpart commands a lot of respect in the region and nationally and “cannot be ignored”. He also praised Mr Ruto’s tenure as the Council of Governors chairman. INDOOR MEETING As the leaders were holding an indoor meeting with the delegates, residents were holding a parallel meeting at an open field within the homestead where they expressed reservations over the DP’s latest political moves. Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter wondered: “The DP repeatedly dismissed CCM as "Chama Cha Mashimoni, Chama Cha Mashakani and Chama Cha Mashetani during the campaigns, what has changed now?” He said the DP had lost political grip of the Rift Valley was now desperate for support from the former governor in a bid to turn the tide around.   Isaac Ruto slowly making a comeback to national politics as Uhuru sends delegation to his home.