Fear has gripped residents of Kisauni in Mombasa County following the emergence of a new gang, whose members have reportedly killed at least 10 people so far. The 10 people were murdered in two weeks and scores of residents left nursing serious injuries. SPREE Among those who died were two fishermen who were slashed in Ng’ombeni on Friday night. Three people were seriously wounded and taken Coast Provincial General Hospital (CPGH). The previous night, a couple and their neighbour were killed in Kajiweni within the same Junda Ward. Lenox Sheba and his wife Juliet Mbaru were killed in their home at around 10pm by a gang of two. The gang also attacked their neighbour who had been at a pub. JUNGLE GREEN That same night, three people, including a woman named Dorothy Otieno, were attacked. “They were in jungle green jackets. We were seated near the pub when they attacked us. They did not steal anything. I ran to the hospital and got treated,” said Ms Otieno, who sustained injuries to her head. Mr Sheba’s brother, Jackson Nyassy, said, “All of them were hit on the heads by their attackers who did not steal anything from them. We are shocked. My brother and his wife were seated outside their home when they were attacked." The attack happened a week after Samson Kinuthia, 42, was killed in Soweto by people who were in police-like uniforms. The killing of Mr Kinuthia last Sunday sparked protests in Kisauni and Nyali, residents noting that the number of cases was on the rise. Two weeks ago, at least five people were killed and several injured in the two areas, that were said to be by the same gang. REPORT A report obtained by the Nation from security sources revealed the emergence of the gang of 40 to 50 members. According to intelligence reports from the sources, the gangsters mostly dress in black and jungle green and cover their heads. They have been spotted, both during the day and at night, in Mtopanga, Vikwatani, Ng’ombeni Kajiweni, Mshomoroni, Kadongo, Chembani, Sungu Sungu and New Hope Primary School at an operation base called Golgotha. “The group comprises of adults, unlike other groups that are operated by juveniles. Members are usually in groups of between five to six when undertaking their criminal activities, which include robberies at shops, M-Pesa outlets and pubs, especially in the evenings when these business are being closed,” the confidential report states. POLICE INVOLVEMENT Prison wardens have been linked to the gang but Mombasa Police Commander Johnston Ipara has denied the claims. On October 24, a prison officer was reportedly accosted by members of the public in Ziwa la Ng’ombe after he attempted to rob a resident. The officer escaped death as he identified himself as a prison warder and was taken from the scene by police officers from Nyali Police Station. Mr Ipara said investigations were on but that they were yet to receive reports of police officers' involvement in the crimes. He asked residents to help them find criminals claiming to be members of the National Police Service.   Residents live in fear of gangsters who are usually armed with machetes or knives during robberies