The high number of girls sitting this year’s national examinations fresh from giving birth or while expectant has opened Kenyans’ eyes to the problem of early pregnancies, especially in rural communities. Social media reports of up to half the number of candidates in some schools showing up for exams with bumps or going back home to nurse babies instead of revising for the next day’s paper are most likely exaggerated. But that doesn’t, in any way, play down the magnitude of a crisis that is compromising the future of thousands of teenage girls across the country. If you find the reports of so many candidates sitting the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education and the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education exams while pregnant shocking, it is because you don’t know how many more dropped out along the way and didn’t even have the chance to do so. LAWSEducation Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed has proposed drastic action against the randy men who put children in the family way. There is actually no shortage of laws in our statute books to deal with men who exploit children for sex and end up destroying their future. The Children’s Act, the Sexual Offences Act and the Anti-Female Genital Mutilation Act should be some of the most widely known laws in the country given the publicity and awareness-creation that accompanied their enactment. The Teachers Service Commission’s Code of Conduct also prohibits sexual relationships between tutors and their pupils. Each of them spells out tough punishment for offenders. But the persistence of early pregnancies, forced marriages and defilement cases in many communities suggests that the legal route is not sufficient to deal with such a complex social problem. PARENTSThe girl child remains vulnerable to sexual abuse and exploitation as long as permissive cultures and poverty reign in these communities. Child welfare campaigners say that one of the biggest hurdles they face regularly in their efforts to have sexual offenders prosecuted is a poor parent choosing to negotiate with the culprit out of court, often in return for some money. Some parents still don’t even consider the defilement of their daughter a serious enough offence to report to the police or local administration officials. In a past column I narrated how my reporting assignment to Narok back in 2004 opened my eyes to the challenges the police encountered trying to enforce the Children’s Act. FGM Regular police crackdowns against female genital mutilation would net scores of villagers for forcing their daughters to be cut. But the suspects would be released the next day without any charges preferred against them because their victims (the children) were reluctant to testify as witnesses against their own parents. Clearly, the law alone won’t save teenage girls from sexual abuse or exploitation, early pregnancies and forced marriages in communities where outdated cultures prevail and poverty is rampant. jkotieno@ke.nationmedia.com  