MPs now want part of Nairobi Dam near Seefar Apartments destroyed in order to save the impending demolition of the buildings. The National Assembly Committee on Environment and Natural Resources argued that the dam is no longer helpful to city dwellers hence it would not be economically viable to demolish the apartments for which Kenyans took loans to buy. In a meeting with officials from the Water Resources Management Authority (Warma), National Environmental Management Authority (Nema) and residents of Seefar Apartments, the committee faulted the government agencies for approving construction of the buildings, only to turn their backs now and call for demolition. DAM NOW A SEWER Kipkelion West MP Hillary Kosgey and his Mathioya counterpart Peter Kihara said that the dam, which is now a sewer, should not be spared at the expense of houses bought through loans and mortgages. “Why can’t we do away with the dam in order to save the over 1,000 families that are living at Seefar Apartments? Is demolition the best way to go noting that such actions scare away investors from coming to our country?” Posed Mr Kosgey. “At what point did Warma and Nema decide that the apartments should be demolished yet they are the same government agencies that gave authority for construction?” he posed. HEALTH HAZARD Appearing before the same committee Thursday, Chief Administrative Secretary in the Environment ministry, Mr Mohammed Elmi, told MPs that the dam is a health hazard. Chairman of the committee, Mr Kareke Mbiuki, faulted Warma and Nema for taking too long, since construction started in 2011, and said as a committee, they are concerned about safety of the people if the dam bursts. Warma CEO Mohamed Shuriye, while admitting that they permitted the construction, said they have so far realised the danger should it rain. Nema director-general Geoffrey Wakhungu maintained that residents must vacate. “Our position on this issue in 2011 and today has not changed. If the developer had complied with the conditions, we would not be here,” he said.   Nema on Friday issued a 14-day notice to occupants of Seefar Apartments in Nyayo Highrise estate.