Many of the all-time academic giants in Nakuru, Nyandarua and Narok counties retained their top positions in the 2018 KCPE examination results. Nakuru County produced the second best candidate, Asanga Leonard Munayi, from Moi Primary School Kabarak who scored 451 marks. Another academic giant, Gilgil Hills Academy in Gilgil town, had its top candidate, Fleon Ogutu, score 443 marks. Naivasha-based Little Friends Junior Academy also maintained its dominance after its candidate, Wanjuki Grace Waithera, scored 441 marks. Others included Otwori Annita Moraa (Little Friends Junior Academy) with 439. He tied with Kuria Augustine Migwi from Radiance Academy. St Peter’s Elite School – a private school in Gilgil Sub-County and which has topped the county for the past two years – this time round produced Anari Ryan Giggs who scored 437 marks and tied with Okombo Esther Atieno from Moi Primary School Kabarak. CELEBRATIONS There were also celebrations at Molo Academy where Levis Orina and Enock Mwangi scored 437 marks and 436 marks respectively. Grace Adhiambo from Moi Primary School also scored 434 marks. Little Friends Junior Academy’s Macharia Mike Gichimu and Kabarak’s Abucheli Ronah Khabayi each scored 433 marks. Song and dance broke out at Kagaki Primary School in Rongai Sub-County after it emerged that the little known school had produced six of the top candidates in Nakuru who scored 400 marks and above. They are Luke Andres Orawo (430), John Malala Omutelema (429), Kelvin Biwott (422) and Ashley Cherotich (420). TEAMWORK Kagaki school director Prof Miriam Kinyua said they had registered 70 candidates and more than 16 pupils scored over 400 marks. She attributed the good results to teamwork and cooperation from parents and high discipline by the pupils. “When our learners come here we start with character formation and that is why the school has been performing well and we thank God for the good results,” said Prof Kinyua. In Nyandarua, St John’s Academy in Kipipiri was turned into a dancing arena when it emerged that it had produced the top candidate in the county, James Kimani, who scored 431 marks. In Narok, Harmony School’s Elijah Kishoyian scored 412 marks. In Laikipia, Macharia Bartholomew from Nyahururu Highway Academy scored 438 marks followed closely by Daniel Nderitu.  Reporting by Francis Mureithi, Magdalene Wanja, Macharia Mwangi, Diana Kimanzi, Waikwa Maina, John Njoroge, Steve Njuguna and Eric Matara   Suspects detained at Maragua Police Station for interrogations.