Moi Primary School Kabarak in Nakuru, associated with retired President Daniel arap Moi, produced the best candidate in the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education examinations in the Rift Valley. Asanga Leonard Munayi of Moi Primary School Kabarak scored 451 marks, emerging tops in the region and ranking among the best four nationally. Moi Primary School, Kabarak, is part of Kabarak educational institutions that comprise high school and a university. Nationally, the top candidates nationally were Rawlings Odhiambo Aketh of Kakamega Hill School and Olive Mwea Wachira of Riara Road Primary, both with 453. The duo were two marks shy last year’s best candidate, Goldalyn Kakuya of St Annes Junior School, Lubao, in Kakamega, who had 455 marks. TOP SCORER Following the top scorer was Mogusu Victor Momanyi of Emmanuel Springs Academy in Makueni, who scored 452 and then came Leonard of Moi Primary School, Kabarak. For the Rift Valley, the other top performer was Kiptoo Calvin Kiprono of St Marks Preparatory School in Nandi, who had 445 marks, while Fleon Ogutu of Gilgil Hills Academy and Wanjohi Ivy Nyambura of High Peak Junior Academy, Naivasha, had 443. Nancy Wangui Kamau of Faith Junior Academy scored 441, as Otwori Annita Moraa of Little Friends Academy and Augustine Migwi of Radiance Academy in Nakuru School tied with 439 marks. Also ranked in the list of champions were Callen Kwamboka Siocha of Westways School and Barthlomew of Nyahururu Highway Academy, both obtained 438 each as Levis Misocha Orina of Molo Academy and Anari Ryan Giggs of St Peters’ Elite School, Gilgil, garnered 437 marks each. TOP CANDIDATES Nationally, the following were among the top candidates; Mwangi Ashley Wambui, Kutus Municipality Primary school, Kirinyaga County with 447 marks. Others were Joshua Angwekwe of Rudan Junion Academy and Njue Chantal Njeri of Thika Road Christian School, each with 446 marks. They were joined by Ngetich Ryan Kipkurui of Whitestar Academy, Namisi Sharon Namikoye of Tender Care Academy, and James Sewe of St Peters Cape View with 445 marks each, while Njagi Ronnie Gathuku of Effort Junior School Kerugoya, in Kirinyaga, King’ori Karleen Njeri of Riara Road Primary and Njoroge Karanja of Makini each scored 444 marks. Others who scored 442 marks are Alvin Gikunju of PCEA Kahawa Sukari, Dorothy Hadassah of Genesis Preparatory School, Kisii, Njonje Jefferson Amukhono of Marel Academy, Bungoma, Kevin Manyansi of Makini School, Nairobi, Debra Gakii of Kathigiri Boarding and Hilary Muriungi Fred’s Academy, from Meru County. TOP POSITIONS Private schools continued to dominate top positions compared to public schools, extending a trend that has gone on for years, especially since the introduction of free primary education in 2003 that increased numbers in public schools against few teachers and inadequate facilities. Performance generally improved compared to last year, with some 12,273 candidates scoring 401 and above, compared to the two previous years, 9,846 in 2017 and 5,143 in 2016. The number of those with 301 and above also improved, 228,414 against 217,307 and 207,141 in the previous years. At the tail end, there were 2,177 candidates who scored below 100 marks, a drop from 2,360 and 6,747 in the last two years. THREE WEEKS Equally, candidates with special needs did pretty well, with the top scoring 446 marks, compared to 426 last year. The exams were released in under three weeks, continuing a trend where the Kenya National Examinations Council is pushing for quick disposal of results in an effort to clean up the process. In the past, KCPE results were released after Christmas, two months after completion and more than a month after marking. But this holding period provided a window where a unscrupulous officials at Knec altered grades for cash, contributing to the widespread theft in the exams. FOOLPROOF TESTS Quick marking and release of the results is part of the wide-ranging measures started in 2006 under then Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i to conduct foolproof tests and reinforce their credibility. Releasing the results at the Star of the Sea Primary School in Mombasa, Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed acknowledged that the stringent regulations have made a difference. This year, only four candidates had their result cancelled because of irregularities. IMPERSONATION “We stepped up measures against cheating, starting with pre-examination monitoring in the second term. As a result, most of the would-be cases of cheating were prevented. However, during the monitoring exercise, our vigilant teams discovered four candidates guilty of impersonation. These four will have their results cancelled,” she said. She added: “In the 2018 KCPE examination, the overall performance has improved compared to last year. Analysis shows that since the new tough measures meant to end cheating were first implemented in 2016, the performance — which was lowest in 2016 — has started rising, a clear indicator that teachers are now seriously focused on their work and that candidates also work hard in class knowing that only hard work will count and not the occasional cheating that had become common in some centres”. JOIN SCHOOLS Form One selection will start on December 3 and qualifiers will join their respective schools in January. Unlike in the past, Form One selection will only be done once without a second selection as has been the case. Among the trends recorded in this year’s exams was the continuing increase in the number of female candidates. Out of the 1,052,364 candidates who sat the exam, 525,070 or 49.90 per cent were females against 527,294 males, or 50.10 per cent; an indication that the country is on the path towards achieving gender parity not only in terms of access but also completion rates at the primary school level. There were more girls than boys enrolled in primary schools in 23 out of the 47 counties. Some of the counties with the highest female population were Kakamega, Nairobi, Meru, Nakuru, Bungoma, Siaya, Kisii, Kitui, Embu, Kisumu, Tharaka Nithi, Uasin Gishu, Kericho, among others. FAVOUR BOYS However, the overall performance is still in favour of boys. Girls only outshone boys in the languages — English, Kiswahili and Sign Language. Boys excelled in the rest — mathematics, science, social studies and religious education. Another worrying trend is the number of candidates who fail to write the examinations, at 8,347, and although a 14 per cent climbdown from last year’s 9,726, is a matter of national concern. Either they represent candidates who drop out, which is a source of worry because it amounts to wastage, or represent cases of double registration which would point to intention to cheat. CHEATING Knec chairman George Magoha declared that exam cheating was now history and warned that those still imagining they can circumvent the system that they have no place in the current set-up, where a multi-agency team was working round the clock to secure exams. He commended teachers for "a superb job'' in preparing learners, noting that those who previously thrived on shortcuts had woken up to the reality of a changed environment and hence were concentrating on teaching and achieving good grades. Education Principal Secretary Belio Kipsang announced that the ministry will conduct an audit on the state of infrastructure in schools to establish the real status to inform investments in terms of resources and equipment required.   Special needs pupil scored 446 out of a possible 500 marks.