Moving the Goalpost (MTG) from Kilifi is among six community projects around the world in contention of cash reward from Cityzens Giving, a philanthropic initiative by Manchester City FC’s fans. Cityzens Giving describes itself as a programme that supports young leaders in cities around the world to tackle tough challenges affecting their communities, through the power of football. City Football Group, comprising of Manchester City FC, New City FC and Melbourne City FC, and its partners have donated £400,000(Ksh 52.7 million) to the campaign. The six projects include safe water programme in Bangalore, a girls empowerment initiative in Manchester, MTG and an education programme in Sao Paulo. The others are a community project in New York and a social inclusion programme run by volunteers in Melbourne. MTG provides girls and young women in Kilifi and its environs with HIV education through football. “This is a sport for development organization that uses football as an avenue to address social obstacles girls and young women face such as early pregnancies, poor access to education, poverty and HIV prevention in the coastal region,” MTG communication officer Sheila Wambugu said. Currently, MTG works with over 9,000 girls and young women between the ages of 9 – 25 years in Kilifi, Kwale, Mombasa and Tana River counties. They have plans to expand to Lamu and Taita Taveta counties. “These girls and young women use football to fight for their rights. They can now stay in school longer, learn about reproductive health and are also taught economic developments kills,” she added. Through Cityzens Giving, City Football Group supports 12 causes, each using football to tackle tough challenges affecting communities, and gives fans the opportunity to decide how funds are split by voting for their favourite project. Launched in 2014, Cityzens Giving is funded by the Clubs' annual revenues, allowing City fans to extend the ‘football effect’ to areas of need across the globe. Fans can vote for MTG or their favourite project on Citiyzens Giving website. The campaign runs until December 24.  