Shoba is a food blogger and caterer specialising in the foods we prepare in our kitchens, in our own time, with ingredients available to us. He whips up yummy things for his many followers every Thursday on the hashtag #CookOutThursdays. His blog, going by the same name, will hopefully soon be gracing your screens. 1. How would you describe what you do, and how long have you been doing it? I create food with passion, whether it is for my vlog, blog or the various events I cater for. I’ve been doing this for about a year now.  2. Is your love affair with food recent or is it a relationship that has been around for a while? I have always loved cooking, mainly because I love eating, (laughing). I started reading magazines at an early age, and gravitated towards the recipes and the appetising food pictures. This inspired me to not only eat well, but to also replicate what I saw. I am self-taught.  3. Tell us about your cooking show. That's on hold at the moment because there's something else bigger coming up soon. I am working on a different concept which will have me visiting different neighbourhoods and cooking for various individuals in their homes. Think of it as ‘a day with Shoba’, where you also learn a few handy kitchen tips.  4. Why is it that we, Kenyans, have taken so long to appreciate our own recipes, our own cooking, to the extent that many of us are hesitant to buy cook books written by Kenyans? Most recipe books written by Kenyans are just a replication of foreign recipe books. Let's be honest, how many have you come across that have kimanga? Or mchicha? Most contain the same old rice and spaghetti recipes. I wouldn't buy them either.  5. What would you prepare in your kitchen if, say, Barack Obama visited? A meal that you think would best represent the spirit of Kenya? Obama - I'd probably make him a mixture of githeri and arrow roots or pumpkins and managu. I could also consider beef biryani with pilipili ya kupika, a sauce cooked using tomatoes and chillies.  