Kakamega Hill School, a private academy in Kakamega County, and Riara Road Primary School in Nairobi, have produced the two best performers in the 2018 Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) examination. Rawlings Odhiambo Aketch from Kakamega Hill School scored 453 marks, to tie at the top position with Olive Mwea from Riara Road Primary School. Teachers and parents of Kakamega Hill School led by the director, Mrs Selpha Omulisia, burst into song and dance shortly after the results were released on Monday afternoon by Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed. “This is another of God’s miracles. We knew our candidates would perform well but we did not expect to produce a top candidate,” said Mrs Omulisia. HARD WORK George Ingabo, also from the same school scored 423 marks. He said prayer and hard work had enabled him perform well in the exam. There were also celebrations at the neighbouring Fesbeth Academy where the top candidate, Victor Kituyi, scored 446 marks. He was closely followed by Austin Namai with 440 marks. Hushim Walusee came third with 432 marks, followed by Wayne Mahata who scored 430 marks, Selma Tsindori (427) and Reinhard Amadala (425). The school’s director, Mrs Ruth Minish, said the performance reflected the hard work and discipline among the pupils and the close cooperation between teachers and parents when preparing the candidates for the exam. “We are expecting to have more than 50 out of the 84 candidates who sat the KCPE exam scoring above 400 marks this year. We are so happy that our focus and hard work has been reflected in the improved performance,” said Mrs Minish. MUMIAS In Mumias, Osinga Merab Adan of Booker Primary School scored 449 out of the possible 500 marks. He was followed by Paul Khamala who scored 437 marks. The best girl in the school, Grace Karimi, scored 436 marks followed by Valentine Opata with 435 marks. Charles Chiteri from St Peter's Boys Primary scored 444 marks to emerge among the best performers in the country. He was followed by Samora Ochieng from the same school who scored 441, Elvis Nyaero (400), Michael Masinde (439), Fortune Wabuti (432), Victor Jatieno and Chrispin Kisegu (431), Graham Osumba (425), Vincent Raila and Derrick Muruesa with 424 marks. Booker Academy Principal John Mark Wandera attributed the sterling performance to hard work by teachers and commitment by pupils. "We will continue in the academic race to ensure we keep our academic star shining," said Mr Wandera. OVER 400 MARKS The school’s headteacher, Mr Tom Omuhaka, said they had registered 88 candidates with 32 so far scoring above 400 marks. He said the school has maintained the leading position in Mumias West Sub-County for the last 15 years. Sr Ann Onyanje, the headteacher of Mumias Boys Primary School, said the 226 candidates were devoted to God and determined to perform. "Teachers worked with a lot of love for the children. They joined Fr Augustine Muyonga in offering spiritual guidance, giving the children a lot of courage," said Sr Onyanja. VIHIGA In Vihiga County, Mudasa Academy also registered impressive results. Joshua Kiribwa scored 434 marks out of the possible 500 marks. In Homa Bay County, the top candidate, James Sewe from St Peter’s Cape View Academy, scored 445 marks. Other top candidates from the school are Dedan Ogweno (433), Fayol Henry (432), Reagan Churchill (431), Gloria Vallery (429), Marks Odika Nichole (427), Filshear Sandy (425), Owuor Dave Habil (424) and Marks Ochieng Caesar (423). In Kisumu, Onyango Rueben Ombura from M.M. Shah Primary School scored 444 marks. He said he aspires to be a doctor. HONESTY Golden Elite School, also in Kisumu, had a total of 20 candidates with over 400 marks. “Honesty is the best policy. I was dedicated, hardworking and prayerful to attain these good grades,” said Venessa Adhiambo who scored 431 marks. In Kuria, 15 candidates from Momokoro Academy in Isebania scored above 400 marks. The school’s headteacher, Mr Tobias Chacha, attributed the impressive performance to hard work and determination. “We have always embraced hard work and determination in our school. Our pupils are also disciplined, something we believe has contributed to our sterling performance,” said Mr Chacha. Private schools in Kisii County performed well in the 2018 KCPE exam. Genesis Primary School in Kisii town produced the top student, Dorothy Hadassah, who scored 442 marks.  Reporting by Benson Amadala, Derrick Luvega, Ruth Mbula, Elizabeth Ojina, Tabitha Onyango, Magati Obebo, Shaban Makokha, Vivere Nandiemo and Victor Otieno   Asanga Leonard Munayi from Moi Primary School Kabarak scores 451 marks.