Matatu operators have said they have lost at least Sh46 billion since the nationwide enforcement of the "Michuki rules" began on November 12. Matatu Owners Association (MOA) chairman Simon Kimutai Thursday said they are losing at least Sh420 million a day because the level of compliance by public service vehicles (PSVs) is between 65 percent and 70 percent. The rest are being fitted with the necessary gadgets, or have been impounded by the police. He said a shortage of seat belts and speed governors was making compliance difficult. 'NO BOYCOTT' “Many vehicles are parked because they lack seat belts, which do not last even a week because they are substandard. There is no boycott by matatus," he said. Mr Kimutai also complained about harassment by traffic police and called for a cashless fare payment system to rein in corruption in public transport. He said the cash payment system has turned the sector into a cash cow for traffic police officers, who "fix" drivers and conductors to get bribes. “Whether you are compliant or not, you have to pay because they look for faults, which should not be the case. They should ensure that the safety gadgets are in place. We do not have to be harassed to comply with the law,” he said. Mr Kimutai urged the National Transport and Safety Authority to empower PSV saccos to revoke the licences of members who flout traffic rules. “It is the saccos that suffer when accidents occur, so if they are empowered, they can rein in errant members,” he said. Meanwhile, Transport Principal Secretary Esther Koimett on Wednesday said compliance levels had improved since the crackdown began. She noted the ministry had issued 22,900 PSV badges, 4,805 road service licences and booked 28,975 vehicles for inspection. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has said the crackdown, during which 40,000 traffic offences have been recorded, will continue even more strictly to ensure that only compliant PSVs remain on the road.   First President freed matatus from any regulation and accountability.