President Uhuru Kenyatta hopes the Building Bridges Initiative will help him leave a legacy of peace when he leaves office in 2022. In an interview with France24 TV, the President said he is banking on his partnerships with Orange Democratic Movement leader Raila Odinga and Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka to defuse ethnic and political tensions in Kenya. REGRETS Mr Kenyatta said he regrets the violent and divisive nature of Kenyan politics and elections “which costs lives, besides harming our economy”. Political outfits “I am excited in the manner in which we are coming together as leaders and people to deal with those issues. With these efforts, we will enter an election cycle that will not be violent,” he said. PRESSURE Despite the General Election being four years away, debates are heating up with some Jubilee leaders piling pressure on him to publicly say if he will back Deputy President William Ruto for the job. Leaders drawn from the ruling Jubilee and other political outfits have been traversing the country and campaigning for Mr Ruto. On March 9, Mr Odinga and President Kenyatta met at Harambee House and agreed to end their differences. CORRUPTION The two said they would address the challenges facing the nation like corruption, tribalism and electoral justice. Following his decision to support the government, Mr Odinga was on Mashujaa Day appointed the African Union High Representative for Infrastructure Development. During his father's burial in Tseikuru, Kitui County on Friday, Mr Musyoka also said he would work with President Kenyatta. DIVISIVE This was after the President called on him to contribute to peace in the country and outside Kenya. “Every leader has something he can do, a contribution he can make. When we work together, we will achieve much for our people. Let us stop divisive politics and work towards developing our nation,” the President said during the funeral. CORRUPTION President Kenyatta is attending the Paris Peace Forum in France with Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and Foreign Affairs Chief Administrative Secretary Ababu Namwamba. During the interview, Mr Kenyatta expressed confidence that the ongoing corruption cases would lead to convictions and the return of stolen public assets. INFRASTRUCTURE “We believe the cases are solid. We are looking at the Judiciary. I am confident the cases will succeed for the benefit of the people,” he said, adding, he has faith in the ability and independence of the courts. Concerning the Kenya-China relations, the President said Kenya has a huge infrastructure deficit that needs filling up for the GDP to grow. Kenya borrows from other countries too, and not just China, he said, adding, the relationship is mutual since Kenya exports more products to China than it used to.   The wastefulness, inefficiency and bureaucracy is, literally, soul-destroying and disgraceful.