Retired Catholic Archbishop Emeritus John Njenga is dead. Mombasa Archbishop Martin Kivuva Musonde has confirmed that the catholic priest died in Nairobi at 11:45 on Sunday. “Dear brothers and Sisters, it is with humble submission to Divine will that I wish to inform you of the demise of our beloved Archbishop Emeritus John Njenga. He went to the Lord today, Sunday 4 Nov at 11:45 hrs. Other details shall be communicated later,” said Rev Musonde. The deceased joined priesthood in 1948 at Kibosho Seniou Seminary in Tanzania where he studied philosophy, theology and pastoral studies for nine years. SOCIAL STUDIES After his ordination as a priest in 1957, he returned to the country and was posted to Kiserian Junior Seminary where he served for three years until 1960. Between 1961 and 1964, he went to London and Rome where he studied Social Studies and the Canon law to doctorate level. Upon returning to Kenya, Archbishop Njenga was put in charge of Law at the Catholic Secretariat before he was appointed the parish priest of the Lady Visitation, Makadara between 1964 and 1969. He was the first priest in for Nairobi archdiocese. ORDAINED BISHOP He was the first ordained priest from Lioki Parish, the first Catholic priest from then Kiambu District and the first priest to publicly baptize his mother on his ordination day as bishop. He was also the first bishop for Eldoret Diocese. In the late 1960, archbishop Njenga was ordained bishop and posted to Eldoret Diocese. During his time of service in Eldoret, he started 40 schools before he was transferred to Mombasa Diocese as a bishop. It was in Mombasa where he was ordained as an archbishop of the newly formed archdiocese. Njenga served in Mombasa for 18 years before he retired. LIKONI CLASHES In an earlier interview with the Nation, he termed the 1997 Likoni clashes, in which more than 200 people died and property worth millions of shillings destroyed, as the most trying moment. Ever since he was a child, Archbishop Njenga aspired to be a priest and was actively involved in church activities. He was formerly a member of the Church of Scotland Mission before he joined the Thogoto intermediate school, a catholic school at the age of 11 years. He served as a catholic priest for 56 years before he retired.  