Deputy President William Ruto will grace Shabana FC’s fundraiser that will be on Thursday evening at Crown Plaza, Nairobi. The Kisii-based side will take part in this year’s National Super League after beating Mwatate United from Taita Taveta county 7-6 on post-match penalties. They will be seeking to return to Sportpesa Premier League in 2019. According to the club chairman Jared Nivaton Ombongi, they require between Sh16 million and Sh20 million to successfully take part in the 2018/2019 campaign that kicks off early next month. “We are looking to donors and friends to help us raise this amount before we start the season. To those unable to attend the fundraiser, you can send your donations to MPESA paybill number 981730, account number 01134129852400,” he told Nation Sport. Thursday’s fundraiser will also be attended by Kisii governor James, his deputy Joash Maangi among others. Shabana was formed in 1980 by Kisii-based businessman Indian Dogo Khan with his relative Akbar Khan who also served as the head coach. They were promoted to Premier League in 1985 finishing 10th in their debut season. In 1988, they represented Kenya in the then Africa Champions Cup after both AFC Leopards and Gor Mahia opted to participate in Cup Winners Cup. They played Zambia’s Kabwe Warriors winning 1-0 in Kisii and losing 4-1 away. Shabana were Kenya’s representatives to the Caf Confederations Cup in 2000 and once again crashed out in the first round after losing 2-0 to Sudan’s Hay al Arab. The club that once boasted some of the league’s best talents was relegated from top flight in 2006 ending their 21-year stay in top flight football. They dropped to Division One ten years later when they failed to honour matches in second-tier league. Club’s secretary-general Kerubo Momanyi believes it’s time they reclaimed their place in the top league. “The current management has worked hard in ensuring that we go back to where we belong. We shall recruit a few players to help us in this journey. There’s goodwill all around us and things are looking great,” she said.  