A perennial crisis in the judicial system is the reason for huge backlog of cases in all the courts that makes a mockery of the laudable efforts to ensure that justice is done all the time. In civil disputes, including family succession cases, mediation can cut the time taken and ensure speedy compensation of the aggrieved parties. According the Judiciary, there are nearly 110,000 pending criminal and civil cases, some of which are more than five years old. What this means is that the suspects, who are innocent until proven guilty by competent courts, are left in abeyance for long periods of time. Also, denial of access to property and funds is a real setback to the innocent. LAZINESS Indeed, there can be no worse injustice than keeping suspects’ lives literally on hold for prolonged periods with accusations hanging over their heads. For the suspects held in remand prison for many years, this is tantamount to being punished by denial of freedom and yet the cases against them have not been proven. The old saying, justice delayed is justice denied is the best reminder about the need to do something about this. Chief Justice David Maraga has been quite vocal about the need to clear the backlog of cases in the courts. He has blamed this on sheer laziness by some judges and some technicalities. SPEEDILY The search for alternative ways of delivering justice ensures disputes do not take forever to resolve. The Judiciary is encouraging more litigants to use the two-year-old Court Annexed Mediation Process (Camp), which has shown great promise. Many cases have been resolved and billions of shillings, which had been withheld in disputes, released back into the economy after the cases were resolved through mediation. The programme is being rolled out to cover cases involving family, commercial, land, and labour matters. This cost-effective method that reduces the time taken to resolve disputes is popular in the developed countries as the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) mechanism. It is only when an agreement is not reached that the matter is referred to court. Speedily determining cases is a vital means of enhancing justice.  