Harambee Stars coach Sebastien Migne has predicted a bright future for Kenyan football after watching from the sidelines as Kenya Under-23 thumped Mauritius 5-0 in the first round, first leg of the 2019 Africa U23 Cup of Nations-cum-Olympics qualifiers at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani on Wednesday. Migne has challenged the youngsters, who depart Friday afternoon for Port Louis, to replicate a similar performance in the return leg on Sunday. Kenya need to avoid defeat or loss by less than five goals to seal a ticket to the second round where they are scheduled to play the aggregate winner between Seychelles and Sudan who battled to a one-all draw in the first leg match at Linite Stadium in Victoria on Wednesday. TOUGH ASSIGNMENTS AHEAD Should they get past the second qualification round in March, they will face either defending champions Nigeria or Libya in the final round set for June next year. Teams that make it to this African junior finals will battle for the three slots reserved for the continent at the 2020 Olympic Games. “I liked the attitude of the players right from start to the end, we saw this kind of character with the senior national team and it’s really important if we want to achieve something for the future,” the Frenchman told Nation Sport at Kasarani. “We are on the way, together with Kimanzi, we are working towards the same direction. We share different ideas with all my technical staff to try build something strong for the future.” With the Harambee Stars not in action during this international break after their 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) Group “F” round five qualifier against Sierra Leone was cancelled, Migne said he will hand some of the impressive U23 players call ups in future. “Some of them are interesting, Ovella (Ochieng’) already showed us some of his qualities, Okumu (Joseph) has something in terms of maturity and maybe he will compete in defence but I don’t want to speak on individuality, I already challenged them to be consistent if they have to be promoted to the senior team,” added Migne. With a ticket to the second round theirs to lose, Kimanzi is set to hand in the fringe players a run on Sunday with England-based striker Jonah Ayunga and FC Saburtalo of Georgia midfielder Alwyn Tera, who are among eight players that did not feature on Wednesday, likely to be given a nod. “We needed to build a strong foundation, then everyone will come on board,” offered Kimanzi. Other unused substitutes in the Wednesday tie were Michael Kibwage (KCB), Lennox Ogutu (Mathare United), Tobias Otieno (Sony Sugar), Ahmad Ahmed (Mathare United), Boniface Mukhekhe (Nakumatt), Harun Mwale and Timothy Odhiambo (Ulinzi Stars).   The 5-0 win means Kenya has one foot in the second round.