Defending champions Kenya Shujaa and Kenya Morans will face Red Wailers and Namibia respectively in the Cup quarter-finals of Safari Sevens on Sunday at the Rugby Football Union of East Africa grounds. National Sevens champions Homeboyz also sailed through to the quarters and will meet the 2015 Safari Sevens winners Samurai International. Imperious Shujaa and Morans finished unbeaten in their respective Pool “A” and “C” matches as Homeboyz finished third in Pool “C” and squeaked through among the best losers. Pool "B” winners Spain will face Portugal, who finished second in Pool “C” in the other quarter-final duel. Leonard “Lord” Mugaisi landed a hat-trick of tries as Shujaa stepped up the pace from a first half 12-12 stalemate to beat Namibia 38-12 in a thrilling and decisive Pool “A” duel. Other try scorers for Shujaa were Alvin Otieno, Cyprian Kuto and Mark Wandetto. Skipper Eden Agero made three conversions while Jonathan Olindi curled over once. Otieno landed for Shujaa to lead 5-0 but Namibia would go ahead 7-5 through Guiliano Chessbrough's try that Tuna Etegameno Amute converted. Mugaisi put Shujaa ahead with a thrilling try after he pierced through the middle. Agero converted for a 12-7 lead before Kurt-Lee Arendese’s try levelled the scores 12-12 at the break. Shujaa cut loose on resumption, Mugaisi slicing through to score two quick tries to complete his hat-trick as Kuto and Wandetto also crossed over. Shujaa earlier thrashed local side Mwamba 53-0 and Apache from United Kingdom 42-0. “Shujaa are looking confident and are hungry to win this tournament,” said Kenya Sevens head coach Paul “Pau” Murunga. “Red Wailers won’t be a tough hurdle to clear.” Murunga said just like Morans, Namibia have young and exuberant players. “They will be good opponents for Morans,” said Murunga. The turnout was disappointing for Day One action. MAIN CUP QUARTERFINAL FIXTURES Kenya Shujaa v Red Wailers (10.44am) Portugal v Spain (11.06am) Kenya Morans v Namibia (11.28am) Samurai v Homeboyz (11.50am)   Shujaa crushed local side Mwamba 53-0 in the Pool “A” opening match.