Sportpesa Premier League Most Valuable Player(MVP) Eric Kapaito will miss tomorrow’s Kariobangi Sharks’ Caf Confederation Cup match against Djibouti's Arta Solar at Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani. Kapaito pulled out of his side's maiden continental tie with a calf injury. He joins skipper Erick Juma, who is recovering from a minor surgery, on the sidelines. Last season’s top scorer limped out of yesterday’s training session at Kasarani Stadium while Juma watched his teammates go through the paces from the stands. Despite the late withdrawals, Sharks’s tactician William Muluya is confident of posting positive results against fellow debutants in the 4pm kick off. Return leg will be played in a week’s time in Djibouti. “The boys have prepared well and we are hopeful of getting a good result here at home and avoid conceding,” he said. He will be expected to throw in new signings defender Nixon Omondi from Kenya Police and former Nozia Sugar hard man Tom Teka. Just like Muluya, Arta Solar coach Musa Mara admitted having little knowledge of their opponents. “I know nothing about them except that they won the cup last season," he told Nation Sport at Utalii Grounds on Sunday. The Djibouti side was drafted into the competition after Djibouti Telecom, who won both the league title and the domestic cup, opted to play in the more lucrative Caf Champions League. The second-placed team AS Ports pulled out citing financial instability gifting Arta Solar a rare opportunity of tasting continental football. “We volunteered to play in this competition to learn and improve our game since we didn't win anything last season,” added Mara. Arta finished eighth on the 10-team log with 19 points from 18 matches last season. They are currently ranked third on the 2018/19 league standings with four points after three matches. The winner between Sharks and Arta Solar faces Ghanaian giants Asante Kotoko who were handed a bye to the first round after Cameroon Football Federation (Fecafoot) officials delayed to submit Edding Sport as their representative in this competition.   "We volunteered to play in this competition to learn and improve," said Arta Solar coach Musa Mara.