Today marks the 23rd anniversary of the tragic killing of renowned Nigerian writer and human rights activist Ken Saro-Wiwa, who died in 1995 at the age of only 51. The memorial comes less than three months after that of his creative arts counterpart, Ugandan literary figure Okot p’Bitek, the 36th anniversary of whose death on July 20 went rather quietly. While Ken Saro-Wiwa has gone down in history as one of Africa’s best-known martyrs, Okot p’Bitek, who died in 1982 at the age of 54, was a renowned poet, footballer, lawyer, cultural champion and scholar. While P’Bitek owed his claim to fame to having written the classic book-length poemsSong of LawinoandSong of Ocol, Saro-Wiwa earned his place in history not from his writing, which was varied and substantial, but from his role as an environmental activist. Apart from both dying at relatively early ages, it is worth noting that while P’Bitek died from a stroke, Saro-Wiwa was actually executed by the regime of the notorious Nigerian military dictator, Sani Abacha. Having spearheaded a non-violent campaign against the exploitation of his Ogoni people, Saro-Wiwa was tried by a special military tribunal for unproved murder charges. He was eventually hanged. LEGACY Decades after their deaths, the legacies of both p’Bitek and Saro-Wiwa are being carried on by their children, who have practically become their literary heirs. Having built up their own creative careers over the years, they have seemingly taken the baton from their famous parents. For instance, two of p’Bitek’s daughters — Juliane and Jane — have won recognition as poets of some repute. That, incidentally, is in addition to following literary, scholarly and legal career paths that seem to have been influenced by their own father’s academic and creative pursuits. Juliane, who holds a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree in creative writing, was born in Kenya in the 1970s and later emigrated from her native Uganda and settled in Canada in 1990. Having notched up her own credits as a writer, poet and scholar, she also has a Master of Arts degree in English, and was this year a doctorate candidate at the University of British Columbia. Evidently versatile like her late dad, Juliane has made a mark with her short stories, essays and poems and has won international recognition for her efforts. For instance, her short storyGoing Homewon a special mention in the 2004 Commonwealth Short Story Contest. The story was consequently featured on the BBC and the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. In 2005, yet another story,War No More, won first prize in an essay competition. Today a Canadian citizen, Juliane’s work has been published widely online, in print and in literary magazines, includingArc Poetry Magazine, Whetstone, FugueandRoom of One’s Own. Given that kind of exposure, it is not surprising that in 2007 she received a grant from the Canada Council that was expected to make it easier for her to produce more non-fiction works. Juliane’s elder sister Jane was born in 1966 at her father’s ancestral home in Gulu, northern Uganda. Having attended primary schools in Kenya, Nigeria and Uganda, she later pursued secondary and higher studies in Uganda and Britain, and ended up studying law, like her father. Today styled a writer, poet and administrator, Jane has followed in her father’s literary footsteps. Specifically, she has adopted his practice of writing “songs.” As for Saro-Wiwa’s progeny, they comprise eight children in all. At least three — son Kenule Bornale Tsaro-Wiwa and twin sisters Noo and Zina Saro-Wiwa — were certainly chips off the old block in more ways than one. CREATIVES Not surprisingly, the trio turned out to be natural creatives, just like their father. While eldest son Ken, also known as Ken Saro-Wiwa Jr, and Noo became acclaimed journalists and writers, their sister, Zina, turned out to be a journalist and filmmaker of some repute. Unfortunately, Ken Jr died suddenly in London on October 18, 2016. He reportedly succumbed to a stroke at the age of 47. Born in Lagos in November, 1968, Ken moved to Canada in 1999 and became a writer-in-residence at the University of Toronto’s Massey College. A superlative journalist, he was a columnist forThe GlobeandMail, and was twice nominated for the National Newspaper Awards for feature writing. He was a regular commentator on major news channels, including CNN, BBC and Al-Jazeera. He also wrote for theThe Guardianin the UK, as well as for theWashington Post, The New York TimesandNational Geographicin the United States. Having made his mark in a vastly impressive journalistic career, in 2005, he returned to Nigeria, where President Olusegun Obasanjo appointed him his special assistant on peace, conflict resolution and reconciliation. The younger Wiwa also served the late President Umaru Yar'Adua as special assistant on international affairs, and from 2013 he was serving as President Goodluck Jonathan’s senior special assistant on civil society and international media. His younger sister Noo Saro-Wiwa, she is today a familiar figure in African and international writing circles. She has over the years contributed book reviews, travel pieces, analysis and opinion articles for such publications asThe GuardianandThe Independentnewspapers. She has also written forThe Financial TimesandThe Times Literary Supplement. Among her many other achievements is the fact of having been awarded the coveted Miles Morland scholarship for non-fiction writing in 2015. Even before that, Noo, who was educated at King's College London and Columbia University, New York, already had many prestigious nominations and awards under her belt, especially with regard to her 2012 book,Looking for Transwonderland: Travels in Nigeria. That title, which has been translated into French and Italian, won the Albatros Travel Literature Prize in Italy in 2016. Before that it had received many accolades, including being named theSunday TimesTravel Book of the Year 2012. In the same year the work was selected as BBC Radio 4's Book of the Week. In addition, the title was nominated by theFinancial Timesas one of the best travel books of 2012, while The Guardian included it among its 10 Best Contemporary Books on Africa in that year. Given the efforts of their plucky progeny, the late Okot p’Bitek and Ken Saro-Wiwa are among the lucky few departed African literary heroes whose memories are being kept alive.   The children of the famous poets have charted their own creative charts.