Like last weekend, it’s a battle of the low and middle handicap golfers at the par 72 Kiambu Golf Club course this weekend where club captain Pius Mworia is hosting the 2018 Captain’s Prize which basically winds up his term of office. During the Doctors tournament last weekend, one of Kiambu’s leading golfers John Ngure was in top form as he fired an impressive round of one over par 73 playing off handicap four, to claim the overall title with nett 69. It was however a tight finish as Ngure had to beat the handicap 12 Patrick Wanjohi on countback to claim the overall title with Wanjohi settling for the men’s first prize. Another middle level handicapper Joseph Muchigi (15) was just a wedge away in second place with nett 70 though after also edging out Fredrick Njoroge on countback. The elite golfers however put a strong fight through Michael Ngene, to claim the gross title with four over par 76. All of them have been drawn for this weekend’s event being sponsored by a host of sponsors who include Kenya Wines Agency (KWAL), Air Mauritius courtesy of one of the Mountain Tigers Larry Njue, Tropikal Brands, Kags Trading, Davis Court Nyeri, Ceragem, Consignia, and Buens Lugar. A total of 150 players were listed to play in the two-day event whose first round is set for Friday. “We have a big field but we have put everything in place to make sure that there is a free flow," said Mworia, who added that there will be a free massage for those who will be worn out after a tough round of golf on the hilly course currently in an excellent condition. CAPTAIN'S PRIZE The outgoing captain thanked the club members for backing him throughout the year as well as all the sponsors who have supported the various tournaments at Kiambu this year. “I have been very lack to have received a lot of support from our club members and I sincerely thank them as well as all the corporates who have visited Kiambu this year," said Mworia. Also staging its Captain’s Prize will be the Kenya Railway Golf Club, the closest golf course in the City of Nairobi where over 100 golfers were drawn Friday and Saturday. The event - sponsored by Madison Insurance, Sidian Bank and Laser Insurance Brokers - has attracted some of the professional golfers. Besides the home pros Alfred Nandwa and veteran Ben Okello, other pros who have also been invited by the captain are John Kiondo of Machakos, John Kagiri of Limuru, Kevin Mabele (Kenya Air Force), John Wangai (Sigona) and Ken Bollo (Royal). Also in action will be the club’s elite players led by Kenya Amateur Strokeplay champion Samuel Njoroge, George Felix, Anthony Mwaura, John Lejirmah and former Kenya Golf Union chairman Anthony Muhoro among others. DARAJA CAPITAL Other Captain’s Prize events will take place at Royal, and Muthaiga while Vet Lab Sports Club will be the venue for the Vice Chairman’s Putter with Thika Sports club staging the CBA tournament. Meanwhile, action also continues at the par 72 Ruiru Sports Club course this weekend where Daraja Capital, a Nairobi-based financial services firm is returning for the fourth year running. At least 180 golfers are expected to battle it out in the first round which starts with Friday’s curtain-raiser featuring about 70 caddies from where the top 16 will make cut to play in Saturday’s main competition. Ruiru Sports Club Captain Peter Mwaura said the event has attracted all the leading golfers. “We are bringing a more exciting experience as we seek to grow golf in the country. We have at least 22 categories of prizes up for grabs,” said Peter Njinu, the Managing Director of Daraja Capital. Among the golfers expected to put up a strong show based on recent form include the club’s top amateur Ben Omondi, Phillip Karoki, Joseph Mugo, Joseph Kibui and John Kibui. On the ladies roll, Winnie Mwangi and Winnie Kamau have been enjoying great form and are likely to feature in the prize list.  