In 1938 in America, Orson Welles, then a 23-year-old thespian, decided to adapt H.G. Wells’s 19th century novel, The War of the Worlds, for radio. The play was scripted such that it would sound like a real broadcast, complete with music and weather reports. The broadcast was all done from the studio, but the script led people to belief that there were announcers, orchestras, newscasters and scientists on-air from a variety of locations. The ramifications of this broadcast were enormous, and its effects were felt across the United States. Panicked listeners loaded their guns in readiness for possible combat with the aliens from Mars. COMMUNICATION In New Jersey, people could be seen outside their houses with wet towels over their faces to protect themselves from Martians’ poisonous gas. With radio came this kind of live broadcast, but it was not without shortcomings. We all agree that communication is an empowerment tool. Used well, it can be a very powerful tool in the facilitation of people in development activities. For the people to take full advantage of opportunities and successfully respond to the challenges of social, economic and technological changes, it is important to possess information. However, knowledge and information as a product can only be useful if effectively disseminated to the right people or audience. It is also useful if disseminators send out verified and factual information. FAKE NEWS However, there is always a gap between the producer or source and the consumers of this product. Mass communication has been the sealer of this gap since time immemorial. The history of the printing press can be traced back to the 12th century when Chinese monks set ink to paper using a method known as block printing. But it is German Johannes Gutenberg, who, in the 15th century, invented the printing press thereafter enabling the mass production of books, which saw a rapid dissemination of knowledge throughout Europe. Italian Gugliemo Marconi and Canadian-born inventor Reginald Fessenden would later invent radio, which propelled mass communication to new heights. Even in those days, Orson Welles’s "The War of the Worlds" broadcast revealed just how much damage fake news can cause to the society, especially when disseminated via such a powerful channel such as radio. REGULATION Though radio has not lost its place as a powerful medium, the power of the internet cannot be gainsaid. With the advent of social media and citizen journalism, it can only get worse. Thankfully, the government has come up with legislation to curb the generation and spread of fake news. The Ministry of ICT is in the forefront in ensuring that fake news and misuse of the internet are stopped. With laws such as the Computer Misuse and Cyber Crimes Act and Data Protection Bill before Parliament, we are moving closer, and in tandem with global trends, to curbing the spread of fake news. ACCURACY We need to reap the benefits of the digital economy and keep our society safe by preventing the generation and spreading of fake news. ‘The War of Worlds’ can happen to us if the media and users of the internet do not check the information they are giving to their audience. The mass media and the internet, if used correctly, are going to be a great enabler even for the ‘Big Four’ agenda. The ICT ministry remains committed to providing the right legislative framework for our media to operate effectively. Ms Mohamed is the Principal Secretary, State Department for Broadcasting and Telecommunications, Ministry of ICT.  