In this interactive series, we invite readers to send in questions to selected public figures. This week, Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri responds to your questions.  1.Sir, your tenure at the helm of the Agriculture docket has been marred by allegations after allegations: “Mercury” sugar, contaminated rice, illegal importation of maize, cartels at the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB), among others. Some of these scandals made the President to publicly rebuke you in Kakamega. Do you still believe you are the right man to lead the ministry? Edward Wanjala Mangoli, Kabuchai This is a question I have seen asked by many. Let me restate once again the following: I took over at the Agriculture and Irrigation ministry in February this year. All the allegations you are referring to relate to issues that had happened by the close of 2017 before I was appointed to head the ministry. I did not play any role at all in the matters referred to above and therefore my stay at the ministry should not be judged based on them. On locally purchased maize by the NCPB, all 152 people who had issues and 62 under investigation had been paid between 63 and 95 per cent of the contract fee before I assumed office in February. In fact, the government owes Sh1.4 billion to those in question, which I have not released.  2. Over the years, the government has lost billions of shillings through NCPB, especially when buying maize from farmers. Firstly, this is due to bad management practices, paying higher prices than what should be normal. Would it not be prudent to appoint four to five large corporate commodity companies, two being local and three international, so that they buy the maize from farmers? This way the pressure will be reduced from one company and farmers have a choice on where to sell. These companies in turn can then sell to the government if it requires for any strategic reserves or sell directly to millers or any market. What are your thoughts about this? Bimal Sobhagch and Shah, director Broadway Bakery Ltd  The cost of production is informed by scientifically considered information. Let me say though that the government buys only a small portion of what maize farmers in the country produce. For example, this year, we have a bumper harvest of about 46 million bags but we are only buying two million bags.However, I must acknowledge there has been mismanagement at NCPB on issues of maize purchase. I would like to assure Kenyans though that the ministry is overhauling NCPB to make it professional and effective. In the next 60-90 days, the senior management will have been overhauled. Further, the government is exploring other alternatives including getting a strategic partner to manage NCPB or even privatise it.  3. Ethiopia took a stand on exporting unprocessed coffee, took a hit for it but now the world drinks branded Ethiopian coffee earning the farmer more through value addition. What is the wisdom in Kenyan coffee continuously being used for blending other inferior coffees in the world thereby losing its uniqueness and our farmers earning dollar cents per kilogramme? What are you doing to address this issue? David Maranga, Langata.  It is important to appreciate the reason for blending. Coffee roasters blend coffee, among other reasons, to make coffee taste the same all year round despite unavailability of certain coffee varieties throughout the year. But as Kenyans might know, President Uhuru Kenyatta set up a task force that is exploring new markets in different parts of the world. I agree though that value addition is the way to go.  4. What measures have you put in place to make sure that our country is food secure? Joshua Mwabali, Nairobi  We are doing a number of things; putting the right plans in place. We have completed the Big Four 100 per cent Food and Nutrition Security Implementation Plan and had consultation with county governments, which as you know, are the bedrock of implementation of all matters agriculture. We have also completed the sector’s 10-year strategy, ‘The Agriculture Sector Transformation and Growth Strategy (ASTGS)’, following extensive stakeholder consultations. Among key initiatives that are ongoing are setting up the right infrastructure for ensuring that farmers and policymakers make decisions based on reliable, timely and well analysed data. With the support of the World Bank, the ministry now has what has been called Agriculture Observatory Platform, which is satellite-based with capability of providing real-time weather data to specific geographical regions in Kenya. This will soon be launched by the President.  5 There is no doubt that the vagaries of climate change are beginning to be felt and appreciated even by sceptics. As a ministry, how have you strategically positioned yourselves to mitigate against this reality? Do you have plans to educate peasant farmers on the same? Komen Moris, Eldoret The government and my ministry appreciate that climate change is real and it massively affects agriculture and agro-based livelihoods. The government has joined the global community in addressing the adverse impacts of climate change by developing legal, policy and institutional frameworks to provide the necessary response. The ministry has established a climate change unit to mainstream climate change issues and has developed two policy documents — the Kenya Climate Smart Agriculture Strategy 2017-2026 and the Kenya Climate Smart Agriculture Implementation Framework 2018-2027 — that provide a guiding framework for the implementation of Climate Smart Agriculture.  6 Food security is a key component of the President's Big Four agenda. Sir, with the maize and sugar challenges you are currently battling with, can you still assure the country that your ministry has strategies to deliver this crucial agenda? Komen Moris, Eldoret Your concerns are spot on. The ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and Irrigation has functions relating to a variety of issues important to food and nutrition security. If too much time is spent on maize and sugar, there is reason to worry that other areas may suffer lack of full attention they deserve. However, the ministry has five State departments each headed by a principal secretary and 29 State corporations with very well qualified staff who are working hard to deliver on the Big 4. I have every confidence that the reforms we have begun will push out the cartels.  7. What has really gone wrong with the country’s sugar industry? Most companies are on their deathbeds yet we have not seen anyone being arrested regarding illegal sugar importation and defrauding millers. Why has the government deliberately neglected the sugarcane farmer? What became of the plans to privatise the publicly-owned millers? Okulo Andrew Guya, University of Nairobi The government has not neglected the sugar sector farmers. The problem ailing the public sugar factories is actually one of mismanagement. Just look at how profitable private sugar companies are operating while the public ones are underperforming.  8. What explains the delays in paying maize and sugarcane farmers after they deliver their produce to NCPB and respective sugar factories? Edward B. Wekesa, Marsabit  Sugarcane payments are supposed to be made by the sugar factories themselves, not the government. Maize payments to farmers are sometimes occasioned by exchequer delays. However, the 2017/18 season process of payment was infiltrated by unscrupulous traders who took advantage of the government subsidy programme, causing the problems that we are now grappling with.  9. Who are the traders who imported maize and are responsible for the delays in paying genuine farmers? Edward B. Wekesa, Marsabit  Those who imported maize and those unscrupulous traders are known by Kenyans. I have tabled before Parliament and provided all investigative bodies the information needed. This same information is available in the public domain for scrutiny.  10. Do you honestly believe you can handle the ‘untouchable cartels’ in the maize saga that your predecessor failed to stop? Do you feel hemmed in when everyone knows some of these guys have direct lines with a part of the executive? David M. Kigo, Nairobi  The truth is with Parliament and the investigative bodies, Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and Directorate of Criminal Investigations. I have absolutely nothing to hide.  11. When will all the maize farmers be paid their dues for last season’s deliveries? What measures are you putting in place to ensure that both the farmers and ugali consumers benefit considering that releasing maize from NCPB to millers at a low price during a time that farmers are harvesting often leads to farmers running on losses? George Ng'ethe, Nakuru  The government has since released all the money owed to farmers apart from the 62 under investigation. We shall conclude all payments by the end of next week by paying the 164 farmers remaining. On release of maize to the market, the government does so to cushion consumers against escalating prices.  12 Massive land sub-divisions is a serious threat to food production and security in Kenya. What is your ministry doing to arrest this situation? David Murugu, Nakuru  Indeed massive land sub-divisions have negative impacts not only as threat to food security but also in the development of the entire agriculture sector on which Kenya’s economy depends on. This is even more serious when it affects the high potential agricultural zones as is being witnessed. The ministry of Lands and the Lands Commission which deal with matters land have commenced the development of land use policy and the land use master plan for the country which will address sub-division matters.  13. Do you regret shelving your political ambitions and instead choosing to remain in the Cabinet considering the scandals at the ministry? Edward Wanjala Mangoli, Kabuchai Absolutely no regrets. What can be more political than what I am handling right now? The experience that I have gained as a Cabinet Secretary is invaluable. I thank the appointing authority for giving me the opportunity to serve Kenyans in this position.  14. The Pyrethrum Processing Company factory in Nakuru town is in financial crisis with auctioneers hard on the management to recover money owed to them. When will the government make fresh capital injection to help stabilise the firm? David Murugu, Nakuru  The ministry is well aware of this unfortunate issue and has initiated discussions to establish why such an important agency has found itself where it is. Once this is well understood the ministry will reach out to the National Treasury for support.In the meantime, a seedlings initiative by private sector and government agencies is underway and we are working to revive the sector because the market is available, especially in the US.  15. Water is life and wealth. Ukambani region is almost sandwiched wholly by two rivers, Tana and Athi, yet majority cannot access them for irrigation due to high cost. What is the short and long term remedy for this from the government? Mwania F.M., Kitui County  It is indeed true that irrigation is expensive and individual small holder farmers may not afford it. The government has invested in many projects in this region including Thwake Dam which will on completion irrigate 120,000 acres of land.Over the past few years, irrigation projects in Kibwezi East and West, Kiboko, Majee, Kambi Mawe in Makueni, Lubwa and Kauti Clusters waters pans, Kalundu, Ngomano, Kivisuni and Usueni in Kitui have been completed.More important, early this year, the ministry began a Household Irrigation Water Storage Project where water pans holding between 1,000 and 3,000 cubic metres are being constructed to move farmers away from rain-fed agriculture. Machakos County is a beneficiary of this project. As part of the Big 4, we are committed to do a lot more.  