“Overall, it turned out to be a good learning experience for the lads though many people wanted me to field my strong team the whole game. I am happy to have given each player a chance to play. We look forward to take this experience to the next stage of the (Caf) Champions League.” The above statement by Gor Mahia coach Dylan Kerr sums up the ‘Everton experience’ for the 17-time Kenyan Premier League champions. After much hype in the days preceding the historic match, K’Ogalo suffered stage fright and as Kerr observed, Gor Mahia players gave too much respect, nay feared, the Toffees at Goodison Park on Tuesday. I have been watching with a lot of amusement raging debates on social media where many are castigating Gor Mahia for losing to Everton. Seriously? Even extreme optimism must be tempered with reality check and the reasonable among us never expected Gor Mahia to beat Everton. The structures, quality of players and everything else general favoured the Englishmen. As Kerr noted, this was a steep learning curve and the lessons learnt will help the club - and the players - for years to come. To his credit, Kerr gave every player who travelled the chance to have a feel of the game. History books will record that Gor Mahia was the first Kenyan club to play an English Premiership side on their home soil. Maybe other teams will follow but the record will remain that K’Ogalo were the pioneers. One thing that came out clearly on that gloomy Tuesday night is that Gor is in dire need of a striker or strikers. Looks like the void Meddie Kagere left is still haunting the team. Coupled with the absence of hitman Jacques Tuyisenge due to a visa hitch and Gor were left clutching at straws as Everton ran rings around them. As Gor Mahia embark on a continental campaign later this month, the team needs to batten the hatches and go on the rampage with a squad of hitmen who neither fear nor favour any opponent. Our aim should be to go past the group stages. On the whole, betting firm SportPesa came out as a very strong brand. I stand corrected but I want to believe that this is the first time ever that an African corporate has organised and funded a tournament in England. The organisation, right from the leg held in Nakuru was superb with everything working like a clockwork. Which brings me to what could be a controversial recommendation. I would want to put it to chairman Ambrose Rachier that it is time we ceded part of the club’s ownership to SportPesa. If Gor were to offer the betting firm say 30 per cent, our financial woes would be over once and for all. This would be a marriage of two strong brands for the benefit of both parties. If we allow SportPesa on board, then we will be sure of one thing - the endless allegations of fraud especially in gate collection will come to an end. Now in my trade I deal with the currency of facts and I cannot stand in the agora and claim that there are people stealing money from the club. However, anecdotal evidence would point to that. Sometimes you assess the crowd present and the figures touted by the officials and you realise that there was some Chinese accounting in place. Lastly, the management is top-heavy and I honestly don’t think it augurs well for the club to have officials rivalling the fans in numbers. Okay not exactly, but you get my drift. All Gor needs is the chairman, a CEO and someone to take care of the finances. You don’t have to be an official to support the club. I know many will cite the laws governing a club like Gor, but as the famous Nazarene taught us, the law was made for man and not man for the law.  