Former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero has accused the anti-graft agency of sending an unlicensed person to value his property, which is under investigation. He is under investigation for abuse of office, money laundering, bribery, conflict of interest and failure to protect public property. 'QUACK' Officer Pius Maithya was sent to Dr Kidero’s property in Gigiri (LR Nairobi/Block 91/156 Gigiri) for valuation but was turned back. Mr Maithya was turned away after it was established that the property was occupied by a diplomat, who is protected by the Vienna Convention on the inviolability of diplomatic premises and immunity. In an affidavit dated November 16, however, the former governor claims Mr Maithya is not a registered valuer and is therefore a quack. “Notwithstanding the lack of legal authority of the second respondent (Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission) to undertake valuations, I have ascertained that Pius Nyange Maithya, who is in charge of valuations, is not a registered valuer as required by Sections 8 and 22 of the Valuers Act, contrary to claims made in his affidavit,” Dr Kidero asserts. Dr Kidero attached copies of Kenya Gazette Notices Vol CXX-37 and Vol CXX-50, which notified the public of valuers licensed to practice in 2018. He says these two volumes do not contain Mr Maithya’s details. APPENDAGE Dr Kidero and his wife Susan Mboya are in a battle with the EACC over their inclusion of their properties in the investigations. He claims the commission has not fully implemented a court order for it to return items seized from them and which are no longer needed in the investigation. In a separate affidavit, Dr Mboya accuses the EACC of treating her as Dr Kidero's appendage. She says that after the court issued the order for some of their items to be returned, the commission only invited Dr Kidero to collect them. “I am a professional lady of international standing with a substantial income of my own, not just a mere appendage, an extension and/or the property of the first petitioner (Dr Kidero), who is a dependent spouse as portrayed in the actions of the second respondent in lumping (Dr Kidero’s) affairs with mine,” she stated in the affidavit. Dr Kidero has denied the claims of corruption and abuse of office, maintaining that all the property in his name was legally acquired, contrary. In court papers, his lawyer Tom Ojienda describes him as a "classic example of a worker bee".   I'll not take this harassment lying down, vows ex-Nairobi governor.