This week we have witnessed a crackdown on PSVs as the government seeks to reinforce the famous "Michuki Rules". Kenya’s roads are said to be among the world’s deadliest for several reasons including poor enforcement of traffic rules, corruption, terrible road conditions, absence of pedestrian infrastructure such as pavements and crossings, and very poor emergency response and care. According to NTSA the number of fatalities resulting from road crashes has increased this year compared to last year. For example, according to their report by October 3, 2018, 2,300 people had lost their lives compared to 2,117 who had died by the same date in 2017. And road accidents are now the leading cause of death among 15- to 44-year-olds. If not contained, this year may be one of the deadliest as we head towards the festive season. The Global Status Report on Road Safety states that road traffic injuries remain an important public health concern, particularly for poor and developing nations. ROAD CRASHES For example, in Kenya, according to this report road traffic crashes are the third leading cause of death after malaria and HIV/Aids. Nearly 3,000 people are killed on Kenyan roads every year, with nearly 50 pc of all fatalities being pedestrians. Unfortunately, whenever there is a road accident, more focus is usually centred on the fatalities with little said about those who sustain life maiming injuries and becoming disabled for life. Almost all hospitals in Kenya have a ward for victims of road traffic accidents. But it is the National Spinal Injury Hospital that can tell the story of road accidents and challenges of acquired disability in this country. The National Spinal Injury Hospital cares for people whose spine is injured through gun-shot wounds, road accident survivors and victims of falls, but nearly 90 pc of patients are road traffic accident survivors. They are either paraplegics (persons with paralysis of the legs and lower body) and quadriplegics (persons with partial or total loss of the use of all four limbs). And most of them are people below age 40. DISABILITIES According to the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (2015) Report, road accidents are the single largest cause of disabilities in Kenya. Having a disability is costly – higher medical costs, paying for disability aids and home adaptations, the cost of transport, help with care and higher costs on day-to-day living. Finding the money to pay for disability-related needs is often a struggle, regardless of one's employment status. Sadly, disability in this country is on the rise with an estimated six million Kenyans having one or different forms of disabilities. Disability, whether cognitive or acquired like through road accident, tends to reduce economic output by reducing or eliminating the economic contributions of certain members of our society. According to World Bank research on economic costs of disabilities 2006 the estimated GDP lost due to disability per disabled person per year is between $1,537 and $19,818 for low income countries like Kenya.  The writer is a social justice commentator.  