United States of America-based forward Taudencia Katumbi arrived in the country early Friday and joined her Kenya Ports Authority teammates in training ahead of the Fiba Africa Club Championships which tips-off in Maputo Mozambique next week. Also joining the training camp were Uganda-based university student Christine Akinyi and former USIU point guard Cynthia Irankunda as the team fine tunes for the championships where they expect to improve on their fifth place finish last year. Katumbi, who has just graduated from Abeline University in the US,  and Akinyi,  a first year student at Ndeje University in Uganda are not new to KPA where they learned their basketball while studying at Shimba Hills and Kaya Tiwi secondary school respectively. "I am very happy to be back home to help my team at the Africa championships, where I strongly believe we will put up a strong show," said the 23-year-old. Katumbi said she was happy with the composition of the KPA team and believes they have what it takes to go all the way. "It really feels good when you return to play alongside your former schoolmates, and a team where your basketball was nurtured and will do everything possible to make a difference," added Katumbi, who left the country in 2014 for a basketball scholarship in the US immediately after completing her secondary education at Shimba Hills. Akinyi started playing basketball for the Dockers while still in form three at Kaya Tiwi. KPA coach Anthony Ojukwu had a near full house in training with the absence of forward Brigid Nanzala and Jamila Zama both who are expected to join the team over the weekend. "I am happy with the talent in this team. We just need to improve our improve our fitness levels and we will be good to go," Ojukwu said after Friday morning's training session. KPA women will use Saturday's National Classic basketball league playoffs quarter-final Game 2 against KU Oryx as a practice match ahead of their departure early next week. The Dockers beat the students 60-33 in Game One in Nairobi and will be looking to finish the job on Saturday. KPA men host United States International University (USIU) in Mombasa on Saturday after comfortably winning Game 1 in Nairobi.  