Champions Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) and Ulinzi Warriors will look to make home advantage count as the Kenya Basketball Federation men’s Premier League play-offs semi-finals enter Game Three this weekend. Both sides risk elimination after losing their respective Game Two matches at the Nyayo Stadium Indoor Gymnasium last weekend. While Ulinzi, who are seven-time champions, trail Thunder 0-2 on the best-of-five series semi-final, champions KPA are tied at 1-1 with Strathmore University’s Blades. The Soldiers return to Nyayo for Game Three on Saturday 4.30pm where only a win will revive their hopes of qualifying for the final. KPA, on the other hand, host Blades at the Makande Gymnasium from 4pm with memories of their 56-69 loss in Game Two still fresh. Going by the results of Game One and Two, Thunder and Blades are poised to enter history books by clashing in the play-offs final for the first time. This will mean that a new team will clinch the title which has been dominated by Co-operative Bank, KPA and Ulinzi Warriors since inception in 1987. Other previous winners are Barclays Eagles, Posta, Lions and NSSF Stars. Pressure will be on the Eastleigh-based soldiers to turn around their fortunes and coach William Balozi is confident ahead of the litmus test. "We intend to break our opponents defence and get more fouls to score from the line to build our name in the competition," said Balozi. Tiberius Menya - who was ejected by referee June Oluoch in Game Two - guard Eric Mutoro, William Ochieng’ and Ancette Wafula must produce their A-game for the soldiers to win. It will not be a walk in the park though as on-form shooting guard Griffins Ligare, powerful forward Kevin Chogo, Faheem Juma and Jackton Agunda will lead Thunder’s onslaught. In Mombasa, KPA have their work cut out as they welcome a vastly improved Blades at Makande. The Dockers beat the students 3-1 in last year’s play-offs final but Tony Ochieng’s charges have proved to be worthy opponents this season. They lost 54-64 in Game One before rallying from behind to win 69-56 in Game Two and lock the series a 1-1. “We have improved by winning one game at home as compared to last year when we played away with two games down. KPA will be under pressure and we are focused to win the two matches in Mombasa to advance to the final,’’ said a confident Ochieng’ who will be welcoming two key players who missed Game Two - Samuel Mogoko and Cliff Alela. KPA forwards Victor Odendo, Aroun Chan, guards Victor Bosire and Tobias Onyango failed to deliver in Game Two and they must step up to save KPA from embarrassment before their home crowd. KPA coach Sammy Kiki said: “We had time to train as a team and work on our mistakes. Training together with scattered players has been a big problem this year. We must win Game Three to approach Game Four with much confidence of qualifying for the final.’’ In the men’s Division One play-offs semi-finals, Emyba and Eldonets will start as favourites to qualify for the final against their opponents as they clash in Game Three matches at Nyayo National Stadium Gymnasium on Saturday. Emyba are 2-0 up on the best-of-five series against University of Nairobi’s Terrorists after having comfortably won Game One and Two last weekend. Emyba, who eliminated Nakuru Club 2-0 in the quarter-final, defeated Terrorists 59-52 in Game One followed with another 84-59 victory in Game Two. Eldonets, on the other hand, took advantage of their home court to rock Kenyatta University’s Pirates 92-86 in Game One in Eldoret before edging the students 74-70 in Game Two to lead the series 2-0. I In the women’s Division One, Africa Nazarene University will host Kisumu-based Lady Bucks in their tight play-offs semi-final Game Three. The two teams are locked 1-1 after Lady Bucks lost Game One 49-61 but recovered to win Game Two 70-69 at their Kenyatta Sports Ground backyard. The series can go either way. University of Nairobi’s Dynamites only need a win in Game Three against Strathmore University to sail into the women’s Division One play-offs final. Dynamites lead the series 2-0 after having defeated their fellow varsity students 41-39 and 42-28 in Game One and Two respectively. In the men’s Division Two play-offs semi-finals, Blazers are hot favorites to knock out Little Prince 3-0 after having won two consecutive opening matches last weekend. Blazers won Game One 60-41 and Game Two 45-40 and will now only need one win to qualify for the final. FIXTURES: Saturday KPA Makande Gymnasium  Mombasa: KPA v Blades (4pm). NyayoStadium Gymnasium: Strathmore University v Dynamites (9am), ANU v Lady Bucks (10.30am), Little Prince v Blazers (12pm), Pirates v Eldonets (1.30pm), Terrorsists v Emyba (3.30pm), Ulinzi Warriors v Thunder (4.30pm). Sunday USIU-A: Riara University v KAA (10am). Nyayo Stadium: Blazers v Little Prince (9am), ANU v Lady Bucks (10.30am), Dynamites v Strathmore University (12pm), Eldonets v Pirates (1.30pm), Terrorists v Emyba (3pm), Ulinzi Warriors v Thunder (4.30pm).  