The plan by MPs to increase their perks through legislation could see some cadres of government employees also demand more benefits, the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) has said. The Parliamentary Service Bill, currently before the National Assembly, seeks to empower the Parliamentary Service Commission (PSC) to handle the legislators' welfare, including reviewing their benefits, but the SRC says the move is unrealistic and likely to be abused. “The enactment of this bill will result in MPs awarding themselves a house allowance and car allowance among others, which will also be demanded by other State and public officers,” the SRC says in a brief. Debate on the bill resumes on Tuesday afternoon, and it is expected to be passed by Thursday. ENHANCED BENEFITS Parliament’s Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs, chaired by Baringo North MP William Cheptumo, introduced controversial clauses (A) and (B) in the bill that, if passed, will see the 416 MPs and senators get enhanced benefits. The legislators want all MPs entitled to a house or a house allowance, a four-wheel drive car fuelled and maintained by the taxpayer, and a car loan, among other benefits. But fiscal experts argue that the introduction of the clause is fundamental and should have been subjected to public participation, and also involved the National Treasury and Parliament's Budget and Appropriations Committee, among others, to see whether the demand is feasible. “This clause alone makes the bill illegal because, if I may ask, where was the public input in this matter before the committee decided to have it included in the bill?” an officer from the Parliamentary Budget Office, who requested anonymity, said. PASS LAWS He argued that in the event that the proposal is passed and assented to by the President without anybody challenging it in court, “then it should not benefit the current parliament". “The spirit of legislation is that MPs should not pass laws that benefit themselves. It can only benefit the 13th parliament and beyond,” he said. The legislators further want to have their medical cover increased to include their extended families, a kitty established in all the 290 constituencies to fund public participation in parliamentary affairs and monitoring and evaluation of national government projects in their areas. They also want the 47 elected senators to be given Sh2 billion for monitoring and evaluating county government projects. CAR GRANT MPs are entitled to a Sh7 million car grant, mileage allowance, and a Sh20 million mortgage with a three per cent per annual interest rate payable in five years. They are also entitled to Sh10 million inpatient cover, Sh150,000 maternity and Sh75,000 dental care. Mr Cheptumo urged his colleagues to pass the bill, saying it will separate the functions of SRC and PSC. “We are passing this law to give the PSC powers to cater for the welfare of the MPs and parliamentary staff,” he said. The MPs also want higher allowances for their domestic and foreign travel, although it is the SRC that is responsible for determining benefits such as per diem. According to the SRC, if the bill becomes law, MPs will award themselves daily subsistence allowance (DSA) rates that are higher than the prevailing rates for other State and public officers.   President urges all leaders to prioritise the plight of Kenyans.