Migori Governor Okoth Obado was on Wednesday arrested by detectives from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations for questioning after eight guns were found in his homes during a raid by officers from the anti-graft agency. Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) detectives Tuesday raided the office and homes of Mr Obado and confiscated, among other things, eight firearms, several bank statements and electronics. Five of the firearms were recovered in Nairobi while sources within EACC said they recovered another three in Migori. The Nation could not independently authenticate the claims because the homes were heavily guarded. The detectives pounced at dawn, and spent hours rummaging through documents that could help in their investigations into alleged misappropriation of Sh2 billion in Migori County. The Firearms Act is silent on the number of pistols a licensed civilian should own, but is specific on the type of firearms to be licensed for. Sh2 BILLION Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti said the firearms would be subjected to ballistic examinations and verification of certificates at the Central Firearms Bureau. The rural home of the governor remained highly guarded for the period that the detectives were looking for the documents. The team of about 60 officers from Nairobi and Kisii, accompanied by heavily armed security personnel, was earlier in the day at the county government offices, where a similar operation was carried out. The county boss is accused of using proxies, among them his relatives, to siphon Sh2 billion from the coffers of the county government, according to an affidavit filed in court by the anti-corruption watchdog. WALKING ON FIRE Last weekend, Mr Obado asked Christians across the country to pray for him, saying he feels as if he is walking through a fire. Mr Obado, who made the request on Saturday as Deputy President William Ruto toured Migori, further said it is as if he was thrown inside a crocodile's mouth. The governor spent weeks in Industrial Area Remand Prison in Nairobi County, following his arrest over the murder of his girlfriend Sharon Otieno. Ms Otieno, a student of Rongo University, was seven months pregnant with his child when she was brutally murdered on September 3. Other suspects in the case are Mr Obado's aides Michael Oyamo and Casper Obiero and one Grado Kithine Ocholla. Mr Obado was freed on a Sh5 million cash bail. At Nyabururu Catholic Church during a funds drive, Mr Obado said the prayers will help set him free. “If you pray for me, I will get out of the crocodile’s mouth,” he said to laughter.   Migori governor spends night at Industrial Area Prison remand.