The Tana River County government is planning to build new headquarters at a cost of Sh800 million. The project, that is for reasons including easing congestion, will see the county seat moved from Hola to Dayate. REASONS The county has so far received Sh200 million from the national government for the project. This amount is for building of new offices, an industrial area, playing ground and a dumping site. Part of it will also be used for the land adjudication process in line with the urbanisation agenda. Speaking to journalists in Hola, Governor Dhadho Godhana said his administration has collected views from stakeholders on plans for the new headquarters. "We have listened to the presentations of various stakeholders. We have something to build on," he said on Saturday. Mr Godhana said the development, which he termed a new dawn for Tana River, is necessary and timely as it will fuel the plans for urbanisation. He said the current location has no space for expansion and that Hola is congested so there is no space to develop infrastructure. PROPER ATTENTION The governor noted that the county had remained behind in development as it had been running out of focus and "losing the attention it deserves". "We are among the greatest counties but we sit in a position that is totally out of focus. The attention we get as a county is negative because for long, we have not positioned ourselves for greater things," he said. Mr Godhana said that with the new headquarters, the county will begin the journey towards becoming a dependable economic hub in the Coast region. He added that the headquarters will add great value as it will be along Malindi-Garissa and Hola-Nairobi. POLITICS Mr Godhana asked residents to prepare for the growth and shun divisive politics that will keep them poor. Regarding opposition to the plan by some leaders, the county chief said some lack understanding are raise issue to remain politically relevant. "When I brought this up, there were lots of negative responses but I am now glad that its significance has been seen. Let us avoid ignorant politicians and negative attention," he said. He challenged those who will succeed him to carry on with the plans, saying the independence of the people of Tana River depends depends on responsible and accountable leadership. "I am here today but somebody else will be here after me. That person must realise that plans set today are not my own but for our people; for their financial and economic independence," he said.   County government partners with KeNHA to rehabilitate Hola main road that leads to Nairobi.