Kenya's road to 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games will be launched in January next year. At the same time, Nock Secretary General Francis Paul has opted to step aside to allow for the completion of his corruption case at the High Court. National Olympic Committee of Kenya (Nock) president Paul Tergat disclosed on Wednesday that Paul's deputy Francis Mutuku will step in. Tergat said that they will come up with the budget and the Central Management Committee that will manage Team Kenya for 2020 Tokyo Olympics. "It's in January when we shall come out with elaborate plans for qualification, preparations and participation," said Tergat, who was briefing the media on his team's achievements and challenges faced since taking office in October last year. Tergat said that they will push for the operationalisation of the Sports Fund since Tokyo 2020 Olympics will need a big investment. He added that besides the Africa Games due next year, some federations will have regional qualifications hence more funding will be required. "Already, some federations have given us their tentative requirements for next year," said Tergat. Tergat said his executive proceeds for a three-day governance retreat on Thursday in Nyeri that will be conducted by the Centre for Corporate Governance. REVIEW REPORT The legendary former long distance athlete said besides governance issues, the executive will also discuss the preliminary forensic audit report that is out. "It has not been easy since we had to restructure Nock operations so as to bring sponsors back and improve our relationship with the government," said Tergat, who was accompanied by Mutuku. Tergat said they will review the preliminary audit report that touches on Nock's finances and properties before presenting it to the General Assembly for adoption before the end of the year. "We shall release the final report to the public in the next few weeks." "The preliminary report not only indicates the depth of the previous problems but more importantly recommendations made on how best to deal with the issues."  