About five months ago, I made a deal with myself to be waking up when I can still hear the school buses picking up children, and when the parking lot is not almost empty. And so one day I set my alarm clock knowing very well I couldn't accomplish this challenging task by myself. When the alarm went off at 7am, I jumped out of bed. I was so proud of myself. SUFFOCATING SMELLS I went into the shower, but my stomach just didn't agree with me. I suddenly felt very hungry and weak, so I decided to start with breakfast. I barely touched the food on my plate because it smelled weird. I took a quick shower and sat on the bed to get dressed. It was the longest morning ever and I felt this way for the next couple of days … until I realised I was pregnant. Waking up at 10am became a task for me. I'd spend almost an hour getting dressed and the smell of everything was just suffocating. The smell of mouthwash, perfume, soap and lotion, which never bothered me before, became unbearable. I was hungry most of the time, but most foods gave me a nightmarish acid reflux for three months. I hated water and the taste of milk nauseated me. Sunny days were boiling hot and when it rained I felt like God was just being malicious. SWELLING I'm 31 weeks into the journey and although I'm out of the woods, as I've been told, fatigue has become my nagging companion. My legs, as some have pointed out — playfully I hope — look like mandazi during the day. Before, I would never pass by a shoe store and not convince myself to get in and "just take a look". But now with the swelling, I stick to sandals. Don't even get me started with the clothes. You buy a blouse today and after three weeks, the buttons threaten to pop open. Pregnancy is a beautiful thing and nothing beats knowing a human being is growing inside of you. You long for the moment when they start kicking, rolling or whatever it is those little 'tenants' do in there. You just can't wait to meet this human. The journey is, however, neither the easiest nor the most glamorous. OVERWHELMED I'm old enough to carry a baby and I planned for this. In fact, I dreamt of the day I'd be a mother. I knew what I was signing up for. Despite all the planning, having a reliable husband and a supportive circle of family and friends ready to answer all my 'weird' questions even in the middle of the night, I still feel overwhelmed. Now, imagine a 12-year-old, a child really, pregnant. She most definitely didn't plan for it and as shocking as it might sound, she probably didn't even know that one act would get her pregnant. Mentally, she does not even know what it takes to be a mother and isn't prepared for it. I remember what it was like to be a teenager. I was still my mum's little girl. My biggest worry was whether she would be mad that I didn't do the dishes. I never had to think about pregnancy. In fact, whenever that science topic, 'Reproduction', came up in class, we'd giggle the whole time. NIGHTMARE For a teenager, pregnancy must be a nightmare. Imagine her body changing, the hormones making her feel all kinds of things. At first she doesn't even know what's going on and when she realises what has happened, guilt and shame eat her up. She has to deal with morning sickness, get over it as soon as possible, head to school and try to act normal. I can only imagine a torturous day for her. The biggest nightmare is when the belly grows and she has to struggle to hide it. The uniform won't fit anymore. What is she to do then? How does she avoid all the glances coming her way? As other children go for PE or play at break time, she has to try and act normal amid all the unusual things going on inside her. Unlike me, she has no confidant. The journey is lonely. If this girl's parents are not keen, she can go through this confusing time without help. GIRLS' TRAUMA The danger is, she can't go for regular hospital check-ups and should there be a complication, she wouldn’t know what to do. Worse still, she might get bad advice from children her age if she confides in them and we all know sometimes this means abortion, a move which, if it does not end up in death, leaves a traumatised young girl and later an emotionally disturbed woman or leads to barrenness. If the hide-and-seek works and she makes it to full term pregnancy, going into labour will certainly scar her for life. For me, after delivery will come the bundle of joy I've been waiting for, but what becomes of the 12-year-old? She'll have to leave school, probably never to go back, and learn how to be a mother. It's unimaginable how a child is supposed to bring up another. Her years as a teenager are gone. Children should be just that, children. The only bulging belly they have to worry about should be a protruding one after having too much to eat.   Department reports 13,624 cases among those aged 15 to 19.