Former world marathon record holder Wilson Kipsang has said there is need to train young athletes to take up positions left by retiring athletes in various fields. Kipsang, who has sponsored up to 50 young athletes from various schools, said that the youths need to be ready to take the mantle from their seniors who are almost retiring. The young athletes will benefit from the newly launched athletes training camp based at Kitany Boys High School in Elgeyo Marakwet County. “We have been training and running for a long time and the youths should be guided to take up the mantle because we are almost retiring. That is why I decided to support those who are talented from the help of games' teachers in various schools to brighten their future,” said Kipsang. He said the the Wilson Kipsang Foundation will be a great talent nurturing centre for athletes from the entire country. “I will be personally monitoring the young athletes and they have to be in the camp for three weeks when they close for holiday. They will also be monitored by a coach and it will be easy to rectify some mistakes compared to when one is at home,” said the former Tokyo Marathon champion. Kipsang also said that he is looking forward to building a good training camp where he will enroll young youths who are talented in the sport. “My dream is to help the youth and I will be looking forward to start a training camp where youths will nurture their talents. This will also help them get scholarships and further their studies as they continue with the sport,” added Kipsang. The athlete donated food items and training facilities he sourced from well-wishers abroad and within the country. He further urged the government under the Ministry of Sports to invest in building sports academies so that many youths from poor backgrounds can get assistance. “The government needs to invest in sports academies because there is a lot of talent which has to be developed across the country,” said the athlete. Kipsang further said he he has started his training for the new season. “The season has started and I’m now doing build-up training as I wait for my manager to communicate on the race that I will participate next year,” said the Iten-based athlete.  