Just five days after President Uhuru Kenyatta hinted at an official government position for him, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka's security detail has been restored at his three homes. The security team was withdrawn during the heated presidential election last year, when the Raila Odinga-led National Super Alliance (Nasa) was locked in a brutal fight for the State House job with President Kenyatta's Jubilee. CAR WITH SIREN Mr Musyoka's handlers Monday confirmed that the former vice-president now has General Service Unit officers guarding his Karen home, and administration police officers guarding his Yatta and Tseikuru rural homes. Mr Musyoka also received an enhanced mobile security detail, including a car with a siren to clear traffic. POLITICAL WEAPON Although he is entitled to the detail by virtue of having served as vice-president, Mr Musyoka's security had become a political weapon, with the police officers being withdrawn whenever he refused to cave in to government pressure. When he spoke at the funeral of Mr Peter Musyoka, the former vice-president’s father, in Tseikuru on Friday, President Kenyatta hinted at a job for the former VP. FOSTER PEACE "I am grateful that Raila has been given a job by AU … He will be able to contribute here and don’t you think he will bring some money to Kenya? My brother Kalonzo should (also) help us to bring the country together and foster peace for all Kenyans and even internationally. Every leader has something to contribute … all we need is to give each other space and respect one another!” President Kenyatta said. APPOINTMENT In his speech, Mr Musyoka all but accepted any such appointment. "From today, in front of this crowd and before the clergy, I want to ask that no one come between President Kenyatta and me. Let no one come between my children and the President's children. From today, I am President Kenyatta's right-hand man, " the Wiper leader told mourners. SUPPORTERS However, his statement continues to annoy a number of his supporters, who are piling pressure on him to clarify what he meant. Former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama has asked Mr Musyoka to substantiate his remarks, saying they could mean he has abandoned his quest for the presidency. EXPLANATION Speaking at St John's Catholic Church in Lita, Machakos, on Sunday, Mr Muthama said he had received many phone calls from Kenyans and party supporters demanding an explanation for the remarks. But he said since Mr Musyoka did not consult him, he could not offer any explanation. Other leaders who have asked for an explanation from Mr Musyoka include Wiper Party Chairman Kivutha Kibwana, and Makueni County Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr.   Uproar as party leader appears to kowtow to President.