Gor Mahia stand-in coach Zedekiah 'Zico' Otieno is hopeful his lead striker Jacques Tuyisenge will be fit for their crunch Caf Champions League preliminary round second leg away to Malawi's Nyasa Big Bullets at the Kamuzu Banda stadium, christened slaughterhouse, next Wednesday. The Rwandan international walked off the pitch injured after only eight minutes during the Kenyan champions 1-0 triumph over their Malawian counterparts in the first leg clash at the Kasarani stadium on Wednesday night. In his absence, the hosts dominated the match entirely, but then struggled to convert a myriad of chances, which came their way against a Bullets team that mainly employed defensive tactics for a majority of the game. "I hope it (the injury) is nothing serious and we can have him available for us in Blantyre," Zico spoke of his most lethal player after the match. After Tuyisenge - who scored 15 times during the 2018 SportPesa Premier League season - was withdrawn, Zico relied on Erisa Sekisambu, Francis Mustafa, George 'Blackberry' Odhiambo and Sammy Onyango to perform the striking duties, even though none of the aforementioned players seems an out and out striker. This development further emphasised the suggestion, K'Ogalo are struggling to replace deadly forward Meddie Kagere, who walked out of the club in favour of a better deal from Tanzanian giants Simba SC last June. Meanwhile, Zico, who is holding brief following the abrupt departure of Englishman Dylan Kerr last week, also suggested his players did not perform to their optimum owing to fitness concerns. His opposite number Callisto Pasuwa is confident they an overturn the deficit at home. "They (Gor Mahia) are a very good side but I am happy because we gave them a good game. Anything can happen when we meet against next week," said Pasuwa. Even though they didn't manage a shot on target at Kasarani, Pasuwa will certainly rely on pacy forwards Nelson Kangunje and Chiukepo Msowoya in attack in Blantyre. The aggregate winner of the clash will either meet Cameroon's UMS Loum or Nigeria's Lobi Stars for a place in the money-spinning group stage of the competition, where a Sh58 million prize money awaits.  