The National Olympic Committee of Kenya (Nock) executive committee has expanded its secretariat, creating four positions "to professionalise operations and provide improved services to affiliates and stakeholders." Nock acting secretary general Francis Mutuku disclosed that these positions will be in finance, administration, projects and communications. He said the positions were created by the executive during a good governance and team building workshop last weekend at the Sagana Resort in Murang'a County. The governance seminar was conducted by the Centre for Cooperate Governance and was geared towards instilling the right practice in the governance of Nock matters. Mutuku said the expansion of the secretariat will create a management team which will run the affairs of Nock daily in line with the international standards. “Currently, and in the past, Nock was run by elected officials but in line with the operations structure we want to bring on board, the executive committee will engage predominantly with board matters and leave the day-to-day activities to the team to be put together,” Mutuku said. Mutuku detailed that they are in the final stage of engaging a human resource firm which will put in place the actual positions to be created, develop the job descriptions and carry out the recruitment of the ideal candidates. “This exercise is expected to be complete by mid-January next year,” said Mutuku, adding that they will also engage financial consultants to put in place policies and procedures involving all financial matters of Nock. Nock will also in the next three months come up with a strategic plan that will incorporate views of wide section of the Kenyan stakeholders. “This will be a product of input from all interest and critical parties to the running of Olympic Movement in the country. The process will start three weeks’ time,” said Mutuku. Mutuku and Nock president Paul Tergat will discuss the changes at Nock with International Olympic Committee (IOC) top brass at the sidelines of IOC General Meeting starting today in Tokyo. The seminar and team building was geared towards getting executive members and staff geared up for the radical changes towards ensuring Nock turns around the management structure. Mutuku and Tergat left the country on Tuesday for the meeting that will also discuss preparations for the 2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo.  