In late 2009, James Mulu Mulewa, then aged 21, met 19-year-old Mercy Muthethya Ngali in Mathare North, Nairobi. James was dazzled by Mercy’s skin, smile and hair, and decided to ask for friendship from the thing of beauty. Mercy obliged and since they both worked in the city centre, they started meeting over coffee and hanging out on weekends. Soon, the strong wave love swept them off their feet and for two and a half years, they referred to each other “my love”. By the start of 2012, their bond had grown so strong that James, then 23, wanted to take the relationship to the next level. But deep down his heart, all was not all. SEXUAL DESIRE While they were closer than close, he was frustrated that the girl he loved and gave his all had refused to get intimate with him. He had employed all the tricks in the dating book to no avail and this made him very angry. Unable to think with his head, his sexual desire drove him down the road of ruin. On Monday, February 27, 2012, James and Mercy rose and rushed to work in CBD as usual. In the evening, the two love birds boarded the same matatu to Mathare North and on alighting, James insisted on accompanying his love to her home. She caved in to his pressure and they both walked to her mother’s house. There was no one home and upon entering the house, James saw an opportunity: He demanded for sex. Like she had done over and over again, Mercy said no. But James could hear none of it. ATTACK He grabbed her, pushed her into her mother’s bed and attempted to rape her, the High Court in Nairobi ruled on Friday after finding him guilty of murdering the young woman who was full of life. According to state prosecutor Charles Okeyo, James tore his fiancée’s underpants as he forced her to have sex. When he failed to satisfy his desire, the prosecutor said, James became wild and in a fit of fury he pulled a knife from his pocket and stabbed her 16 times. Overpowered and defenceless, Mercy screamed attracting the attention of neighbours. James refused to open the door, compelling the alarmed neighbours to call police officers who were on patrol. On arrival, police ordered him to open the door or else they force their way in. With trembling hands and quaking in his shoes, the man who had done the unthinkable opened the door. On the bed, the lifeless body of Mercy lay in a pool of blood, and on the floor, was the murder weapon— knife. "Mulu (James) viciously attacked the defenceless woman whom he had laid in her mother’s bed," Justice Roselyn Korir said in her conviction. “Mulu assaulted his would-be wife by stabbing her six times in her private parts, six times in her lower abdomen, one time in her liver twice in her thighs and once in her buttocks."   She said the murder could only have been committed by the accused since he was the only person who was with Mercy moments before her death. The judge said the accused committed a heinous act of pouring anger on an innocent girl who lost her precious life at a tender age. Having secured a successful conviction, Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji has only one request to the court: hand down the mandatory death sentence to this man. Mr Okeyo, the state prosecutor representing Mr Haji, on Friday urged Justice Korir “to have no mercy” on James who killed Mercy without provocation. He said James’ date with the hangman would serve as a warning to men who have no respect for women and human life. But in his mitigation, a subdued James pleaded for leniency, saying he has reformed and has even pursued theological studies while in remand prison. The judge will visit the scene of the murder before passing her sentence on December 5. Harry Misiko contributed to this report.  