Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has come out fighting over accusations by members of the National Assembly that he routinely snubs Parliamentary summonses to respond to national issues. Armed with two thick box-files, which he said were answers to parliamentary questions, Dr Matiang’i told journalists at his Harambee House office Thursday that his ministry has appeared before the security committee 39 times this year alone, half of which sessions he attended in person. '39 TIMES' “The Hansard can bear me witness that we have attended summonses by the committee on national security 39 times. Those MPs making these claims know that they are simply not true,” said Dr Matiang’i as he accused MPs of making “wild statements against individuals who have no opportunity of defending themselves on the floor of the House.” Dr Matiang’i further said that unless the Parliamentary privilege is checked, it could threaten separation of powers between the House and the other arms of government — Executive and Judiciary — and endanger the country’s democracy.” MPs had on Wednesday afternoon threatened to impeach Dr Matiang’i for disregarding invitations by the House committee on Administration and National Security, chaired by Kiambaa MP Paul Koinange. MPs Chris Wamalwa (Kiminini), John Waluke (Sirisia) and Olago Oluoch (Kisumu West) told CSs to respect legislators as they are elected by the people. The three urged National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi to allow them to impeach at least one CS to serve as an example. Dr Wamalwa told Dr Matiang’i that he is not the only person who is qualified to be in charge of the Interior docket. “The way he is undermining us is not acceptable. We cannot allow the independence of this House to be taken lightly,” Dr Wamalwa said. Mr Olago echoed Dr Wamalwa’s sentiments, saying it is high time MPs took action on defiant CSs by impeaching them. ACTION “Dr Matiang’i is always on TV believing he is a super CS, yet he is not. He needs to honour summons by committees,” Mr Olago said. Speaker Muturi advised the MPs to compile a report of CSs who have defied parliamentary invitations and summonses and bring it to his office for action. “Whenever a CS fails to honour invitations, the committee should make a resolution to have the minister or CS summoned to appear in person, failure to which the House can deal with the CS later,” Mr Muturi said. Among the issues Dr Matiang’i was supposed to respond to include poor living conditions in prisons — including food shortage and pending bills at the ministry running into billions of shillings. The CS was also required to explain non-payment of suppliers in prisons department, the issue of number plates which had stalled for some time as well as the acquisition of new choppers for the police department. But Dr Matiang’i Thursday said he had written to Mr Muturi to clarify the correct position. “I am sending this tabulation to the Speaker, through the Leader of Majority,” he said.   Kibicho's letter angers MPs.