Nothing will stop Deputy President (DP) William Ruto from working with leaders across the political divide for the sake of countrywide development. The DP said this on Saturday during a tour of Nyanza, noting he is ready to work with opposition leader Raila Odinga and that he does not care what people make of his "closeness" to Migori Governor Okoth Obado. "GOD'S PLANS" Mr Ruto said he was with 'Baba' in the past but that "things went haywire as you know". "However, God’s plans are many. As you can see, 'Baba' has joined our fold and we are working together for the greater good of the country. I am ready to work with him and all leaders across the political divide to unite the country and foster development,” he said at Kendege in Kuria East Sub-county, Migori. He added: “President Uhuru Kenyatta and Mr Odinga have decided to bury the hatchet and work together. That is why I am visiting all parts of the country, including Migori, to spread development." After a lengthy election process that saw Mr Odinga reject the declaration of Mr Kenyatta as president, the two shocked the country with a decision to put their differences aside.. Their handshake on March 9 has been emulated by other politicians, who also say they want to work together for the same reasons. OBADO "CLOSENESS" The DP was hosted by Mr Obado, Kuria East member of parliament (MP) Marwa Kitayama and Kuria West MP Mathias Robi. Much to the delight of residents, he pledged to “work with governor Obado to bring development to the people of Migori”. “Is there a problem if I work with governor Okoth Obado? I will continue to work with him to deliver development to our people. I will not mind what is said of our closeness,” he said. The DP urged all politicians to shun 2022 talks and concentrate on service delivery. “Let us stop this incessant politics and embrace unity and development. The time will come for us to talk politics. We cannot be politicking from Monday to Friday, January to December,” he said. In Nyamira, the DP launched Kemera-Kiendege-Eberege-Gachuba-Keumbu road before heading to Nyahururu Catholic Church for a fundraiser. The church gave Mr Obado a rousing welcome. MPs Shadrack Mose (Kitutu Masaba) and Richard Onyonka (Kitutu Chache South) hosted the deputy president.   Nasa leader reveals what motivated dialogue and why some people close him were kept in the dark.