Mt Kenya lawmakers Sunday hit out at Deputy President William Ruto’s opponents accusing them of a plot to lock him out of the 2022 presidential race by adducing fresh evidence to the International Criminal Court. The politicians claimed that Mr Ruto’s rivals were crafting ways of scuttling his ambitions by providing ICC with information to build on a case against him regarding the 2007/2008 post-election violence. FRUSTRATE Led by Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung’wa, the MPs speaking during a fundraiser at PCEA Kangaita in Tetu Constituency, Nyeri County, said that an attempt to pin down Mr Ruto will not succeed. Among the lawmakers present were James Gichuhi (Tetu), Kanini Kega (Kieni), Jane Kihara (Naivasha), Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), Sylvanus Osoro (South Mugirango) and Patrick Mariru (Laikipia West). Mr Ichung'wa said that those opposing the DP were giving information to the ICC prosecution to frustrate his quest to succeed President Kenyatta in 2022. REJECTED In the latest ICC annual report submitted to the United Nations General Assembly, it emerged that chief prosecutor Fatou Bensouda continued to receive information related to the case in the past year. The case against Mr Ruto and former radio presenter Joshua arap Sang, was vacated by a majority decision in April 2016 due to lack of incriminating evidence, however, the judges rejected an application of acquittal by the accused. DOWNFALL Earlier in March 2015, President Kenyatta’s case was terminated under similar circumstances. The MP noted that the investigations will not stop the DP from contesting the top seat in the country. Mr Nyoro claimed that the same people who dragged the DP to The Hague were also plotting his downfall. EVIDENCE “The thieves who united and incited criminal charges against the DP and the President have been taking information to ICC. We want to tell them that the wave of the DP cannot be fought,” he said. Migori Governor Okoth Obado who had also accompanied the DP said that despite the new evidence produced at the ICC, the case against Mr Ruto will collapse again. Nyeri Woman Rep Rahab Mukami asked Mr Ruto not to falter even as his opponents gather to introduce new evidence against him at the ICC. POLITICKING However, the Deputy President steered away from the debate insisting that politicians should concentrate on development instead of politicking. "Work must continue because we do not have time for propaganda. We have united with those we were competing against to foster unity among Kenyans," he said. Contrary to reports that Mt Kenya leaders would keep off 2022 succession politics and early campaigns after a stern warning from President Kenyatta when he visited the region last week, the lawmakers did not change tune. BOUNDARIES Meanwhile, Kieni MP Kanini Kega has opposed calls to consolidate Tetu Constituency with another during the boundaries reviews scheduled in the next one year. “We shall not allow Tetu to be wound up during the imminent boundaries review because it has the requisite numbers,” he said.   The prosecution terminated the cases, citing witness interference.