IN KAMPALA Uganda Cranes qualified for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations with a match to spare thanks to a well-taken header by Patrick Kaddu in the 1-0 victory over Cape Verde at Namboole on Saturday. The KCCA striker's second half goal, his first in the qualifiers, ensured the Cranes will be at two successive finals for the first time since the 1974, '76 and '78 editions. This was also monumental for Cranes coach Sebastien Desabre, who has qualified the team on the first time of asking in his maiden role as a national team boss. "I'm very happy we've reached our target of qualifying with one match left," said the Frenchman. "I'm very happy for my boys, their commitment. We are a family." "I also want to thank the fans and the federation. It's been a collective effort." The Cranes, backed by about 30,000 fans, now lead Group L on 13 points, a massive eight ahead of second-placed Tanzania, who face Lesotho on Sunday. RECORD POINTS Uganda, who wrap the campaign away to Tanzania next March, could finish with a country's record high 16 points in the qualifiers. The Cranes were a fairly better side in the first half with Kaddu, starting ahead of second half substitute Edrisa Lubega and Derrick Nsibambi, twice beating the visitors defence but Khalid Aucho and Isaac Muleme's efforts were ineffective. Cape Verde, who could have scored against the run of play when Garry Mendes Rodrigues beat Murushid Jjuuko and Hassan Wasswa's defence only for goalkeeper Denis Onyango to step in, were much improved after the break. UGANDA SURVIVE Actually, Jjuuko had to race back and clear the ball off the line after Cape Verde substitute Heldon Ramos rounded Onyango midway through the second half. But Cranes looked more dangerous going forward, with silky Moses Waiswa transitioning well from Denis Iguma and Aucho to Faruku Miya, Godfrey Walusimbi and Allan Kyambadde. It was one of those moves that had Walusimbi swing in one of his quality deliveries that Kaddu leaped above the otherwise solid Fernando Varela and Carlos Rodrigues to head in the winner on 84 minutes.   Mauritania is among teams that could also join the 24 finalists in Cameroon.