Aides and associates of Deputy President William Ruto and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi attending a Narc-Kenya event last Friday night used the platform to woo Ms Martha Karua to consider coalition options with them ahead of the 2022 polls. Narc-Kenya was celebrating 12 years of existence and launch of a re-branding campaign in Nairobi. The aides sent with goodwill messages showed that their bosses were willing to partner with Ms Karua’s Narc-Kenya. With a constitutional referendum campaign talk in the air ahead of succession campaigns, the loaded expression of support, admiration and calls for partnerships point to key political players still consider Ms Karua worth cultivating for an ally. RELINQUISH POSITION Ms Karua announced that she would relinquish her position of party chair to a younger person in the next round of elections in 2021 “to create more time and focus for other political pursuits”. Praising the Narc-Kenya leader for her tenacity and steadfastness in her political career and party leadership, Mr Mudavadi’s associate, Mr Geofrey Kanoti, said the ANC leader had sent him with a message that the party was open to partner with Narc-Kenya on possible coalition. “Narc-Kenya leadership should consider discussions on possibilities of working with ANC in a coalition, and what this would mean for the country at this time and going forward,” he said. Social sector adviser at the Deputy President William Ruto’s office, Mr Geoffrey Kaituko, said the DP had granted him leave from a tour of Garrisa county where he was part of his entourage, to fly to Nairobi to attend the event. The former Turkana County Assembly Speaker was a Narc-K member before defecting to the Jubilee Party in 2017. DIFFERENT STRATEGIES “What I am saying is we are going to need different strategies for 2022, including working with Narc-Kenya,” he said. Nairobi Woman rep Esther Passaris hailed Ms Karua for holding Narc-K steady for 12 years She shared her frustrations of being treated like a suspect by her ODM colleagues, and shunned by her Jubilee kinsmen.  