CAN I USE BRACHIARIA IN MAKING SILAGE? In Seeds of Gold of October 20, you discussed fodder crops for making hay but you didn’t mention brachiaria, what’s your take on it? Edward Brachiaria grass is quickly revolutionising dairy farming in Kenya amid rising concerns with the most common forage sources such as Boma Rhodes (quality of market hay), maize for silage (attack by fall army worms and lethal maize necrosis disease) and napier grass (napier grass stunt and head smut diseases). The mulatto variety of brachiaria can be grazed or cut and fed to animals under zero-grazing and also has high biomass production capacity making it a good alternative for making silage or hay. Common varieties of brachiaria grass available in the market are mulatto I & II, cayman, cobra, basilisk, MG4, piata and xaraes, which thrive well in different areas where they are grown. Felix Akatch Opinya, Department of Animal Science, Egerton University. **** TREES TO INTEGRATE WITH TEA BUSHES I am a tea farmer from Olenguruone. Kindly advise me on the best tree species to integrate with my tea bushes. Morgan Langat The best tree species to plant with your tea is Grevillea robusta. Tea crop and grevillea have different root patterns, so there will be minimal competition for nutrients. The deep roots of the tree absorb nutrients found beyond the lower profiles of the soil where the roots of the tea plants absorb nutrients. It is also good in replenishing nutrients, thanks to its leaf litter, and it contains high amounts of micro-nutrients, therefore, reducing further application of fertilisers. Hezekiah Korir, Crops, Horticulture and Soils Department, Egerton University. **** GROWING ORGANIC ARROWROOTS I read the article on organic arrowroots production on September 29 being done by Mark Korir from Egerton University. Kindly send me his contact details. Contact Korir through the email address markkorir74@gmail.com Tom C. Owino, Department of Crops, Horticulture, and Soils, Egerton University. **** FARMING ONIONS IN NAKURU COUNTYCan onions do well in Solai, Bahati and Pipeline in Nakuru County?Rinje There are key factors to consider about the performance of a crop in any given area. Four key requirements are variety, soils, temperature and moisture. However, to be specific about onions (bulb onions), they require cooler weather during the early stages of growth with a dry atmosphere and moderately high temperature for bulb formation and maturation. The bulb onions thrive well in warm to hot climates of 15-30oC with optimum temperatures for plant development ranging between 13oC and 24oC. They require light well-drained soils with a pH of 6-7 and high fertility. The bulb onion plants need a substantial amount of water at bulb formation stage, but excess moisture must be avoided throughout the growing season. Irrigation is necessary especially on light sandy soils and can either be overhead or drip irrigation. Stop irrigating the plants 2-3 weeks before harvesting or when 20-30 per cent of the tops collapse. The areas you have highlighted almost fall within the described temperature regimes. One could also consider growing the crop under greenhouse management. Tom C. Owino, Department of Crops, Horticulture, and Soils, Egerton University. **** THE BASICS ON KEEPING RABBITS I am planning to start keeping rabbits. Kindly advise on the market, dos and don’ts and also if possible extension services. Kennedy Lagat, Kabarnet Rabbit production is one of the livestock enterprises with a great potential. This is because the animals need minimal investment and they reproduce fast. Their feed requirement is low, especially with regard to demand for grain. Their meat is highly nutritious and are a healthier source of protein when compared with other meats. The realisation that rabbits are well-suited to rapid production of protein has increased the number of industrialised production units, just like in poultry. The most popular breeds used in the meat industry are the New Zealand White, Californian, Flemish Giant, French Ear lop, Chinchilla and Dutch. Important facts about rabbits and rabbit meat include faster grow rate especially if fed well reaching maturity at five months and slaughter weight at three months, they require less space with diminishing land size, therefore, can be kept at the backyard. They can also derive their feed requirements entirely from greens, they are prolific breeders, with each doe capable of reproducing four times a year an average of eight kits per kindling, they have one of the highest feed conversion ratios at 4:1, rabbit meat is white meat of high quality, easily digestible with low fat and has low cholesterol. Rabbits are non-ruminant herbivores, which can be fed on wide range of feeds including grasses: guinea grass and elephant grass. Succulent herbs: tridax and euphoba spp. Legumes: centrosema and stylo. Tree/shrub fodder: leuceanea and pigeon pea. Crop residue: maize husk and cowpea/groundnut vines. Kitchen leftovers: vegetables trimmings, root and tuber peel and cooked food leftovers: rice and cassava and concentrates. Rabbits should receive 100-150g of supplementary feed/day and should be fed twice, early morning and late afternoon (evening). Provide fresh clean water all the time. Dennis Kigiri, Department of Animal Science, Egerton University. **** NEMATODES IN TOMATOES I planted over 500 grafted tree tomato seedlings and they all died at flowering stage. They had swollen roots. What could be the course and its remedy? James Maina This is due to nematodes, which are small microscopic organisms found in the soil and when they infest crops, they lead to wilting. The roots of infested plants are swollen, distorted and have knots or galls. Control using: Solarisation: It involves thermal disinfecting of soil by trapping solar radiation under plastic mulch. It helps to eliminate soil-borne pests. The plastic mulch helps to transmit heat to as deep as possible into the soil. It is carried out for 3-8 weeks and probably during the hottest periods of the year. Combination of solarisation and Dazomet or Calcium cyanamide results in good control of root-knot nematodes. Polythene sheets are readily available. Fumigation: It is the use of fumigants to treat the soil. Fumigants are volatile and are applied through the pores of the soil. They act as toxicants to soil-borne pathogens and other harmful organisms. The most commonly used fumigants are chloropicrin (tear gas), which is a liquid applied into soil that is already covered with plastic sheet. The treatment is carried out for 1-3 days under cover and two weeks or until the gas odour cannot be sensed. 1, 3-Dichloropropene is another fumigant, which is effective in the control of nematodes, insects and also suppresses some weeds. Crop rotation: Practice crop rotation by growing crops, which do not belong to solanaceae family to starve and kill the nematodes. Carol Mutua, Department of Crops, Horticulture, and Soils, Egerton University.   For questions or enquiries on agribusiness, marketing, logistics, processing, innovation, and technology? Send your questions to: satnation@ke.nationmedia.com