Eldonets will make history when they become the first team from North Rift to ever feature in Kenya Basketball Federation Premier League The Eldoret-based side stomped into the  top league after hitting Kenyatta University’s Pirates 3-0 to qualify for Division One play offs. They play Nairobi’s Emyba in the season finale to decide the winner of Division, both teams having qualified for Premier League. Eldonets welcome Emyba to their backyard  for the first two games of the best-of-five series before travelling to Nairobi for two more matches. In case of a tie, the deciding game will be played at Nyayo National Stadium Gymnasium on December 8. Eldonets finished fourth with 34 points in the regular season to set up a quarterfinal clash with much fancied Barclays Bank. They shocked the Bankers 82-69 in Game One in Eldoret before stamping their authority with a 83-67 win in Game Two in Nairobi to wrap up the three-game series. Buoyed by their quarter final success, Eldonets set their eyes on Waringo Gitau-coached Pirates in the semis. They took control of the series with 92-86 win in Game One followed it up with a close 74-70 triumph in Game Two before emphatically clinching the tie with a 74-62 victory in Game Three. The high riding Eldonets are now eyeing Division One glory as they take on Emyba. They have good home record and pundits have tipped them to win the first two games of the final in Eldoret. They will then need to win just a single game in Nairobi to be crowned the 2018 champions. With their promotion to Premier League, fans from North Rift will have a chance to experience top notch basketball in their backyard. Majority of men’s Premier League teams have been based in Nairobi with Kenya Ports Authority (Mombasa) and Kisumu Lakeside being the only two clubs outside the capital city. As Eldoret celebrates the arrival of Premier League basketball, Kakamega is all gloomy as the only side remaining in the top league has been relegated. Women’s Premier League side Western Delight finished bottom of the log and will now take part in Division One next season.   Trailblazers the only men's team relegated from top flight basketball.