The five Ngirita family on Wednesday pleaded with a Nairobi court to reduce their bond terms, saying that they could not raise the Sh5 million cash bail set by the High Court to secure their release. Through their lawyer Cliff Ombeta, told Chief Magistrate Douglas Ogoti that their accounts and assets had been frozen. after they appeared in court in relation to the loss of Sh469 million at the National Youth Service (NYS). He added that it has been difficult for the family to get a surety. The Ngirita family comprises matriarch Lucy Wambui, daughters Ann Wanjiku Wambere and Phyllis Ngirita, son Jeremiah Gichini Ngirita and his wife, Catherine Wanjiku Mwai. RECEIVED SH74 MILLION Ms Wambere, through her company, Annwaw, is alleged to have received more than Sh74 million from the NYS while her mother allegedly received Sh59 million through Waluko investments. Mr Gichina allegedly received Sh72 million through Jerrycathy Enterprises while Ms Wanjiku is said to have received 23 million through Kunjiwa Enterprises. The prosecution, through Gitonga Riungu, said it was the Assets Recovery Agency that froze their accounts. After hearing the application, Mr Ogoti said he could not vary the bond terms because the trial was yet to start. High Court Judge Hedwig Ong’udi, while releasing the suspects on bond, said any of them could apply to the trial court once the trial commences. DEPOSITED CASH BAIL By 3pm Wednesday, most of the accused had deposited the cash bail and were waiting for the verification of sureties to secure their freedom. Former NYS Director General Richard Ndubai had paid the cash and deposited the logbook of his car, worth Sh4 million. Mr Wellington Lubira, former chief Finance Officer at NYS, had deposited the logbooks for two cars, worth 3.5 million. Mrs Lucy Ngirita had also paid the Sh1 million cash bail while her niece was to stand surety for her. The pre-trial could not proceed on Wednesday because the lawyers said they had not been served with all the witnesses' statements.   ‘Supplier’ says she does not know where the goods were sourced, their cost and if they were delivered.