Some people say 'make your daughter so capable that you don’t have to worry who will marry her! Instead of saving money for her wedding day, spend it well on her education and most importantly, instead of preparing her for her marriage, prepare her for herself! Teach her self-love and confidence'.  This is what Mr. George Mwaino Mwanake, 55, did for his daughter, Hope Mwanake, 31. "My dad is an amazing person inside and out. Despite the fact that he is a qualified accountant, he lost his job at a renowned hotel in Mombasa when we were very young due to the downfall of tourism sector at the coast,” says Hope. George sacrificed his education and career and began doing odd jobs so that his children would have food on the table and go to school. Today, Hope says she has all reasons to celebrate him as she gives credit to her father for the woman she has become. She is grateful for his wise counsel and the attention he paid to her and her siblings. "He instilled in us (my three younger brothers and I) the culture of hard work and the importance of education. I always hear his words in my mind every time ‘you know that I’m not rich, I have no money in the bank, land or any property for you to inherit. You need to work smart and create a future for yourselves,’” recounts Hope. Words that a father speaks to his children in the privacy of their home are not heard by the world, but, if heeded, can make the children prosper. George has been Hope's role model and hero all through. "If it were not for my dad I would probably have dropped out of school. In lower primary school, I was the naughty girl who left her homework in school, who climbed trees in other people’s compounds to eat their fruits. He never gave up on me." George would follow his daughter to school just to ensure she actually went to school – she was unaware of this until later on – and he stayed up late hours to help her with school work and revision. "It’s not easy growing up at the Coast especially if you are a girl because of the numerous challenges like drugs, sexual exploitation and a cycle of unending poverty," Hope says. George did not only ensure that Hope went to school, but he committed himself to raising a morally upright human being. He openly talked about the consequences of having sex, indulging in drugs and the importance of having the right friends. Sometimes, teenagers just need to hear the plain truth that has not been sugar-coated. Today, Hope is a well-educated woman who has used her education to impact other people’s lives. "My dad’s way of raising me may not have been the right way for me at that time but trust me it paid off. All the no’s he said, denying me freedom, all the functions, parties and get-together sessions he said no to, all the friendships that he ended; all these things worked out to my benefit,” she says. One time when she was young, Hope was so angry at her father that she told him to stop raising her like a broiler chicken, and her father replied “Wait until you have your own daughter and then raise her like a free-range chicken.” George also raised his children to believe in God, to be confident and brave, to speak up, to be the voice of reason and defend themselves, to be bold, and, above all, to be kind people. "I owe all my success to him. He always tells me ‘The sky used to be the limit; Hope you can achieve everything you put your mind to.’” Today Hope has a daughter of her own, Zawadi, and she says she learnt a lot from her dad’s parenting. Hope prays that she will raise her daughter to be better than she is and to be a woman without limits. "I love you very much my amazing father Mr. George Mwaino Mwanake, I celebrate you today! Happy Father’s Day and may the God Almighty give you a long life to see your grandchildren and great grandchildren." ***  Follow #DadStoriesKE for more stories like these or visit this Father's Day 2018 link. What would you like your dad to know this Father’s Day? Can you say it in 800 words? Email: lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com   My dad’s brother emerged like a hero in our lives and saved us from a life of destitution.