We live in a global gargantuan mesh where everyone is connected to everyone. We spend trillions of hours tweeting, texting, chatting, emailing, shopping, reading and watching stuff that we collectively and collaboratively create, and passionately share. We don’t charge for twitting or liking content online. We enthusiastically recommend pleasant places for people to visit, movies to watch, books to read or content to consume. We fervently partake in producing online goods and services by offering ideas and expertise. We are shareholders of all the online forums and platforms that connect us with others. We don’t pay to play online and we are not paid to contribute either. Collectively, we have built big online empires. This is the philosophy behind socialism. OPEN SOURCE Socialism is an economic theory of social organization that believes that the means of making, moving, and trading wealth should be owned or controlled by the community as a whole. Take Wikipedia and all forms of wikis, for example. Wikis promote a culture of building huge online libraries of documents contributed to by people of all stripes. Wikis are community resources that everyone and anyone can contribute to and use-- of course with a few back-office staff to make sure unmerited stuff is not published. The Internet is stocked with millions of free and open source software. Open source software is mainly developed through open collaboration. Open collaboration relies on goal-oriented yet loosely coordinated participants who interact to create a product or service of economic value, which they make freely available to contributors and non-contributors alike. Internet forums, mailing lists and online communities are works of online open collaboration. Open collaboration is the operating principle underlining a gamut of diverse ventures, including Bitcoin and TEDx and many more. CREATIVE COMMONS Google gives us the most comprehensive library of nearly every nook and cranny in the world. It gets better by learning our search habits. Every time you type your request on Google Search, Google looks, learns and improves its search algorithm so as to serve you and others like you better. In this way, you and other billions of fans contribute to sharpening Google’s Search tools, albeit for free but creating a billion dollar behemoth. Share-friendly copyright license known as Creative Commons is the soul of the new-age socialism. A Creative Commons license is one of several public copyright licenses that enable the free distribution of an otherwise copyrighted work. NO PERMISSION A Creative Common license, for example, is used when an author wants to give people the right to share, use, and build upon a work that they have created. It allows people to legally allow their own images, text, or music to be used and improved by others without need for additional permission. Creative Commons has been warmly welcomed. As of last month there were an estimated 1.4 billion works licensed under the various Creative Commons. As an example, Flickr—a nest for tens of billions of photos —hosts over 415 million Creative Commons licensed photos; photos that you and I can use freely without seeking consent. Buoyed by borderless internet, tech-engineered socialism promotes decentralization of goods to the utmost corners of the planet mainly through sharing. SHARE EXPERIENCES Sharing is the fodder that feeds online collaboration and distribution of good and services. It is predicted that by 2050, the world’s richest and most profitable entities will be those that harness sharing. Sharing of thoughts. Sharing of ideas. Sharing of goods, time and products as opposed to owning or hoarding them. Uber, Airbnb, Twitter, Facebook and many others own no merchandise but have mastered the art of rallying the online community to contribute for free and share their experiences. One lesson we can take from the internet-driven socialism is that the world is moving towards open collaboration and sharing. Days of owning and hoarding are quickly sliding behind us. The writer is an informatics specialist. Samwambugu@gmail.com @samwambugu2  