Well, the World Cup is on and we are very sure most of the Kenyans are glued to their screens to watch it. No team seems to be the doormat and all are very prepared. Only luck seems to evade others but to say the truth, it is engrossing as it is. Kenya is not one of those teams there, and even the Kenyan referee whom we could have crowed about was sabotaged by a Ghanaian criminal pretending to be a journalist! That is water under the bridge. What bothers us about the world cup is that looking at ourselves, we feel afraid and relieved that we are not in that competition. We would literally be rained upon with perhaps a goal after every two minutes. We wouldn’t last even a match there before our faces become iron boxes with the heat of shame. The dishonour would even set the capital city on fire! May that cup pass us! It has been a mantra for anybody who makes it to the presidency of the Football Kenya Federation to stoke our passions and expectations by saying we shall soon be in the World Cup! Every coach they bring is prompted to chime in with the same foolish optimism and get us worked up over the obvious lie! Some of us are now used to it and even before they unveil a new coach, we already have our articles complete with quotes from the brand new second hand saying the same thing. That we shall not reach soon enough. At the same time, African countries are seeking to host the World Cup. It is a good and silly ambition. They will not make a cent out of it and whatever they make shall go to corruption. The next world cup shall be held in Qatar and the one of 2026 shall now be held in Mexico, the United States of America and Canada. Morocco lost the bid for the fifth time now. They voted 164 for the North Americans and gave a paltry 65 votes for Morocco. That is the way of the world...money talks. What irks us most is what the Africans had to say about the outcome! They were calling for amendment of the bidding process. They were talking as if they cared! The Malawi FA president Walter Nyamilandu called for the reintroduction of the rotational system saying that it is the only solution to the current process of bidding. The rotational system was stopped in 2007 after South Africa had been given the green lights to host the 2010 finals. It was stopped for Africa! On the behest of AFRICA! One would think that such silly views would be allowed to rest in peace but not so. His views were echoed by his Liberian counterpart Musa Bility who sighed: "We should ask for an amendment to the bidding process that would allow rotation to come back," It is okay and we must respect his Liberian opinion. What bothers us is that it is the same African countries –including Liberia- that did not vote for the Moroccan bid! Give us a break sinners!!  