Kenya Simbas and Zimbabwe held their final training sessions on Friday at RFUEA grounds in Nairobi ahead of their Rugby Africa Gold Cup cum 2019 World Cup qualifying match. The clash kicks off at 3pm. Zimbabwe Sables coach Peter de Villiers took the visitors through their paces as they geared up to play against long-time rivals. Zimbabwe arrived in Nairobi on Wednesday while Kenya Simbas returned on Monday morning from their successful outing in Casablanca where they downed their Moroccan host 28-24 to draw first blood in the tournament. Sables assistant coach Brendan Dawson was optimistic of getting a result in Nairobi. "Our team is fully fit. We have no injuries at the moment we are very happy with our preparation and we are ready for Saturday." Zimbabwe drew 23-23 with Morocco in their first 2018 Gold Cup outing. "Kenya are aggressive and active in the field. “They run the ball really wide; it's the way Kenya always play and we expect a high tempo game." "The Kenya Simbas coach has been involved with the team for a very short period of time, so I am not so sure of the amount of changes he can bring. But it's the same Kenya, quite competitive side, big men who have rugby sevens influence so we expect the side we've seen over the last few years." Brandon was in-charge of the Zimbabwean side that beat Kenya Simbas in 2012 in Nairobi to win the Africa Gold Cup but said the addition of World Cup qualification did not add any pressure to them. Zimbabwe named their starting squad to play Kenya Friday morning with prop Denford Mutamangira set to captain the side. "It's exactly the same. We want to qualify for the World Cup pressure is on us (Africa), the standards in the rest World is improving day by day so we need to keep up with the modern pressure and pace of the game. Yes, pressure is here; let's say a bit of it but we want to qualify for the World Cup like everyone else." Of the 25 Zimbabwe players who travelled to Nairobi, only Lucky Sithole and Ziyanda Khupe do not make the match-day 23 named by Peter de Villiers. Kenya Simbas head coach Ian Snook said his squad was looking good ahead of the match although he insisted on focusing on line-outs and breakdowns. "Obviously we've watched video of their game against Morocco we realise there will be a big test. It will be difficult." "We are looking to improve on line-outs and set-pieces also a little bit of scrummaging. We've been working on that. Otherwise the mood is positive and we are ready to go on Saturday afternoon." Zimbabwe starting line up 1. Denford Mutamangira 2. David Makanda 3. Farai Mudariki 4. Johannes Stander 5. Fortunate Chipendu 6. Takudzwa Mandiwanza 7. Connor Pritchard 8. Tapfuma Parirenyatwa 9. Ernest Mudzengerere 10. Lenience Tambwera 11. Mathew McNab 12. Brandon Mandivenga 13. Kudzai Mashawi 14. Takudzwa Kumadiro 15. Shingirai Katsvere Replacements 16. Mathew Mandioma 17. Cleopas Kundiona 18. Lawrence Cleminson 19. Kudakwashe Nyakufaringwa 20. Brian Nyaude 21. Jeremiah Jaravaza 22. Tafadzwa Mhende 23. Dylan Baptista Kenya starting line-up 1.Patrick Ouko 2.Coleman Were 3.Joseph Odero 4.Andrew Chogo 5.Malcolm Onsando 6.George Nyambua 7Elkeans Musonye. 8.Davis Chenge 9.Sam Onsomu 10.Isaac Adimo 11.Edmund Anya 12.Darwin Mukidza 13.Peter Kilonzo 14.Tony Onyango 15.Biko Adema Replacements 16.Curtis Lilako 17.Moses Amusala 18.Peter Karia 19.Oliver Mangeni 20.Dalmus Chituyi 21.Martin Owila 22.Xavier Kipngetich 23.Max Kangeri   The Simbas have made three starting changes.