English Premier League side Everton FC club motto Nili satis Nisi Optimum which means “nothing but the best is good enough” has ignited the desire of players and coaches in the SportPesa Super Cup of making a life time trip to play in England. Some of the eight coaches and their team captains were exuding confidence ahead of the anticipated action that begins at Afraha Stadium, Nakuru on Sunday. Gor Mahia coach Dylan Kerr said defending the title and having a chance to travel to England with his charges would be like enjoying “the big cherry on top of the ice cream.” “The cash incentive is massive and impressive but playing an English Premier League side and one of the oldest sides that has been in existence for 140 years with a fantastic stadium and huge fan base is the dream of every team in this tournament,” said Kerr. The winners of the week-long event that will end on June 10 will pocket Sh3million and also earn a ticket to play Everton at Goodison Park next month. “I told the players last night (Friday) that Everton FC have got one of the most amazing playing surfaces. I know better than any other coach in this tournament as I played there in 1983 as a Sheffield player and I can tell you it is the best field in Great Britain,” said  Kerr “It’s a once in a life time opportunity and my ambition is to take Gor Mahia to England and show case them.” Kerr said his job at Afraha Stadium is to make sure these crop of Gor Mahia players make a new career and life for themselves and their families by playing at Goodison Park. “Victor Mugubi Wanyama is the only player from Kenya in the English Premier League. Why? Michael Olunga is in Spain. Why? These two players have the same talents we have here in Kenya and I don’t see any reason why we should not have more Wanyamas and Olungas playing in European top leagues.” “Playing at Goodison Park we shall show case our talent  and that is why I say this is a do or die tournament for Gor Mahia and me as a coach,” said the Englishman. He described the chance of playing in this year’s tournament as a defending champion as “golden opportunity” for Gor Mahia and this is one of the must-win tournament “come rain come sunshine.” “I told the players the victory in Kenya would be a game changer for them, their careers and their life would never be the same again and the change over starts against Jeshi La Kujenga Uchumi from Zanzibar." “I hope my players will see the bigger picture of playing in such a brilliant surface in front of some of the best soccer scouts and will make sure they win the tournament.” Gor Mahia captain, Haron Shakava said his side was prepared to retain the cup. “We have been preparing since we started the league. It is been tough despite a congested fixtures at domestic and international level but we are ready for the tournament and we shall not let our fans down because we want to go to England,” said Shakava. Young Africans FC assistant coach Noel Mwandila has warned Kakamega Homeboyz to brace for a tough battle in their encounter on Sunday. “Since we arrived on Friday we have had two training sessions and I think we are prepared well for the duel and send our first opponents packing and move ahead and clinch the title,” said the 36-year–old  Mwandila, who is a former Zambia international midfielder. MISSED THE TITLE He was speaking to the Nation Sport at the end of their training session at Nakuru ASK showground. He added: "We missed the title last year at home and this year the pressure is more as we have a chance of travelling to England to play Everton at Goodison Park and that is what we have come to achieve in Nakuru,” said coach Mwandila. He said he was not worried playing away from home. “Football is all about 90 minutes and the way you play and it doesn’t matter where you play at home or away. Last season Gor Mahia came to Tanzania and clinched the title. The same can happen to us this year as we are ready to turn the tables on our opponents,” said coach Mwandila. If Young Africans beat Kamega Homeboyz, they will book a date with either perennial rivals Simba or Kariobangi Sharks. “It would be nice playing Simba away from home and we are also ready for them,” said Mwandila. He said he will banking on some of the top players such as  the 21–year-old striker Raphael Loth and Pius Charles Buswita, who have been getting goals for the side. “We are coming from a tight season that saw some of our key players remain behind because of injuries but that is not a cause for alarm for me,” said Mwandila. However, he said the side will miss the services of their top marksmen Zambian Obrey Chola Chirwa, 24,  who would not be available as he is nursing a knee injury. “As Yanga we don’t depend on one person. The rest of the players in the camp are equal to the task,” he said. Captain Thabani Kamusoko said that despite that fact that they were meeting Homeboyz for the first time, his side was optimistic they will carry the day. “I have told all the players to be careful while playing Homeboyz because they know us better as we have featured in African championships but on our side we don’t know their playing pattern,” said Kamusoko. He said the club has upped their game to clinch the prize money and make a maiden trip to England.  