Infinix Mobility, a subsidiary company of Transsion Holding which has in the last two months launched two different devices in the Kenyan market added another one to their growing family on Sunday At the Armani Hotel, Burj Khalif, Dubai, they launched their new gadget the Infinix Note 5 smartphone which is the successor to the Note 4 and Note 4 Pro which were launched in 2017. The Note 5 will for the first time run on the Android One platform, where users are assured that they will get the purest of Android experience without the hiccups of any bloatware. The device runs on the latest Android 8.1 Oreo operating system and Infinix promises that these devices will get a firmware update for the next major Android version. The device which has been one of the most anticipated smartphones from Infinix this year also comes with an advance AI features and a circular fingerprint sensor in the rear. According to Managing Director of Infinix Mobile Benjamin Jiang, the company is targeting trendsetters, and young professionals for them to experience the software designed by Google and combined with great hardware from Infinix/Transsion. TARGETS TRENDSETTERS “We empower our users to go beyond the limit with our newest breakthrough technology. All while they enjoy an intelligent lifestyle through the fusion of technology and stylishness. In partnership with Google on Android One, we will provide the young generations with unprecedented mobile experience and revolutionize their mobile life with Note 5,” said Mr. Jiang during an interview with the Daily Nation. The new device features an all-new design and several hardware upgrades that include a large display with fewer bezels, faster processor, efficient battery and better camera optics.   Nicknamed “Beyond Intelligent”, the Note 5 smartphone is equipped with an amazing display, which provides users with superb viewing and entertainment experience with an Infinity 6.0’’ FHD screen (2160 x 1080 pixels), 18:9 aspect ratio and 500 nit brightness. The edge-to-edge screen also makes the device look stunning, both from a design and a technological perspective. It features a 16MP low-light front camera, which allows selfie lovers to take professional selfies even in low light. As for the rear camera, it is supported by a 12MP resolution. Its long-lasting battery will provide up to 3 days on average usage with a 4500mAh battery, built with a 3A Fast Charge that will keep users fully functional throughout the day. The dimension is reduced but the screen size has been increased compared to its predecessor which leads to a screen-to-body ratio of 85%. It comes with a Glass finish uni-body design with tampered edges for perfect hand handling.   The sensor is aided with a smart AI that helps to capture great quality images with AI beauty mode, AI Bokeh Selfie, Portrait Mode with Ai based segmentation for portraits and better low-light images. The device has already sold out in the Kenyan market at Jumia as they try and restock again before the end of the week. It is going for Sh17939 and apart from it being sold online it will also be available in other outlets across the country in the next few days.   It runs on Android Go, an extremely light version of the Android OS.