If you ever paid attention to the Kenyan entertainment industry for the last two decades or so, one thing you might have noticed is how fast recording labels took turns to rise steadily to the top, then gradually wither to extinction. From rapper Jua Cali’s co-owned Calif Records, Ogopa Deejays (that catapulted  the likes of Redsan, Nameless, Colonel Moustapha, Ugandan Jose Chamelone among others to fame), Sub Sahara, Ketebul Records, Myke Rabar’s Homeboyz Records, to veteran producer Tedd Josiah’s Blue Zebra; all these labels took turns sitting on Kenya’s music industry throne. Almost over the last eight years, the recording label that had been sitting on the throne and whose time now seems to have come to an end, was Grand Pa Records. It was founded and owned by former rapper-turned-producer Refigah. Grand Pa first opened its doors to artistes in 2010 as an underdog label, when Ogopa Djs, Homeboyz, Calif and other labels of the time were battling for showbiz supremacy. Five years later, Grand Pa became the talk of town as it had managed to win local fans’ hearts with the release of hit tracks every other week such as  “Dumbala”, “Dawa ya Moto”, “Fimbo chapa”, “Maswali ya Polisi”, “Sura ya Kazi”, “Kamua Leo”, “Hivo Ndio Kunaendanga”, “Mbilikimo Mkora”, “Mapepo”, “Tempo”, “Rede” among others from its various artistes. Another reason that made the label stand out was its original and unique beats that were more of club bangers or close to the dancehall genre. It had become a force to reckon with, something that Refigah bragged about every time he got a chance to be interviewed. In an interview with a daily three years ago, while revealing the secrets of the immediate takeover of the showbiz industry, Refigah was quoted saying, “We started small but we had a grand plan. ALIVE AND KICKING Let’s just say that we have a clear business strategy and our growth is not an accident. We are creating a music empire. We want to define the East African sound and that is why we are expanding to Uganda, Burundi and Rwanda for a complete takeover.” However, the grand plan doesn’t seem to be working any more. Grand Pa, having made a tradition of releasing a hit song every month for the last couple of years, is yet to drop any since mid last year. And despite the once stable label seemingly  going down just like its predecessors, Reffigah maintains that Grand Pa is still alive and kicking only that its re-strategizing. “We haven’t released a single song since mid-last year to date and this is because  Grand Pa is currently restructuring to be much better, and i can assure you we have about 40 hit songs in waiting” Reffigah told Center stage. Even so, for several months now, artistes that were signed to Grand Pa have been ditching it under unclear circumstances. Recent departures include dancehall musician Dufla Dilgon and Gin Ideal, who is rumoured to have signed with Taurus Musik. With the departure of Gin Ideal, the “Rede” hit maker, word on the street has it that Grand Pa currently has no other artistes left signed to it. However, Reffigah says the label has still retained several more artistes, including Ugandan Cindy Sanyu. It is also rumoured that, poor working relationship between Refigah and the artistes could have been the major undoing of the stable. Biggest among these being with gifted producer, songwriter and musician Visita who is credited with the production of several, if not all hits, for the four years he was at the stable. Until his departure last year, to start his own label, Hela Records, Visita was the vice president at Grand Pa Records, a clear indication of how well he was treasured by the stable’s hierarchy. After the fallout, Visita claims that Grand Pa was mistreating artistes, including him, as they were not getting any value for their efforts. “So many people realised too late that I was the producer at Grand Pa Records. They didn’t know it was me because I wasn’t allowed to own my compositions. Many thought it was Refigah and I was just an artiste signed like anyone else,” Visita says. He goes on to add that he got tired of being used and wanted to focus on his projects, hence his decision to leave. This is in contrast to the claims that he was fired by Refigah. Reffigah says, “There are only two ways an artiste can leave Grand Pa; if one is fired or the contract comes to an end, and Grand Pa isn’t interested in renewing it. Having said that, Visita was fired on 23 September 2016.” He wonders why Visita hasn’t yet moved on, “Whenever he goes for an interview, he has to talk about Grand Pa because it the label that gave him a name. Since he was fired, he has been to more than 10 studios but he is yet to produce any single hit song.”Months after Visita’s departure, rapper Kenrazy and his wife Sosuun also left Grand Pa to join Visita at Hela Records, and produced the song “Toroka”. Recently, Dufla also teamed up with Visita  to record his latest single “Katapila”. Dufla says, “My contract came to an end. Besides, the guy (Refigah) got busy with his other businesses and I felt it was the right time to move on.” Interestingly, this is the same reason given by Gin Ideal, “I am not in a position to explain the exact reason why I left, but let’s just say there comes a time when a contract runs out and one has to leave.” But could this be a coincidence? Rapper Kenrazy also downplayed rumours that he ditched Grand Pa after a disagreement with Refigah, claiming that he left after his contract expired and didn’t feel like renewing it. Kidis, the ‘Kamua Leo’ hit maker, who left the stable a year after having joined it in 2012, says, “I was the first to leave and it’s because I realised something wasn’t right in there. The guy (Refigah) contacted me, sweet-talked me into joining the label. Before signing the contract I consulted extensively from top guys in the entertainment industry and many of them warned me. So I took the risk on a fact finding mission, and they were right. For instance, someone would tell you he got a show for you and the organisers are paying Sh10, 000 and you later come to find out the guy was actually paid Sh100,000. I wouldn’t have stayed any longer.” Big announcement after Ramadhan In his rebuttal, Reffigah wonders why Kidis is still clinging to his label’s name yet his contract expired five years ago. “Could it be because his first and last hit was ‘Kamua Leo’ under Grand Pa?”  he paused.The producer goes on to allege  that over the years, being in the talent management industry he has come to realise that “dishonest” is most artistes’ second name. “Ask around, all these producers; Clemo (Calif Records), Musyoka (Decimal Records), R Kay they will attest to this. You will never hear these artistes complain while still signed to the labels, but wait until you part ways... This is why not a single one of them who left Grand Pa has been able to stand out on their own. Let the public be the judge. However, I wish them well,” Reffigah added. Reffigah sums by stating that Grand Pa will be making major announcements after the Holy month of Ramadhan, that he believes will revolutionise the local industry once again. It’s worth noting that before the recent mass exodus witnessed, DNA had also left amid the same claims of “bad blood” between him and Reffigah.  