Africa high jump champion Matthew Sawe on Thursday shattered his own national record three times to retain his title at the Kenya Defence Forces Championships at Kasarani Stadium. The 29-year-old coached by Frenchman Moussa Fall, cleared by 2.30m to win and set a new national record, breaking his previous distance of 2.25m set in 2015. Sawe broke the record for the first time when he downed 2.26m before hauling 2.28 with his second clearance. That is when the athlete from Thika scaled 2.30m to retain the title, beating Asbel Kiprop from Gilgil on 2.12m as Kahawa's Amos Kipsang cleared 2.00m for bronze. "This is a big achievement for me and I thank God for it," said Sawe, who attributed his record- breaking feat to change of tactics by his coach Fall. "After a poor show in Gold Coast Commonwealth Games, Fall introduced a different programme to change the way in accelerate, approach and scale over the bar," said Sawe, who now trains in France. Sawe scaled 2.15m in Gold Coast and failed reach the finals. Sawe said the new record now motivated him ahead of his Africa title defence due August 10 to 15 in Assaba, Nigeria. It's at the Africa Championships where Team Africa will be picked for the World Cup that is also known as the IAAF Continental Cup planned for September 8 and 9 this year in Ostrava, Czech Republic. "It's my dream to retain the continental title and make to the World Cup for the first time," said Sawe, who has been training in France for the last three years. Fall, who is in the country, said he is proud of his athlete for breaking his own national record thrice. "I wasn't happy with his show in Gold Coast because I knew he was capable of doing much better," said Fall, who met Sawe for the first time at the 2012 Africa Championships in Benin. Sawe then competed in 800m and high jump. "I took him to France after Australia and I am happy about what he has done," said Fall, adding that more is yet to come from Sawe before the 2019 World Championships in Qatar and 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games. Bethwell Lagat from Moi Air Base cleared 7.58m to retain his long jump, beating Bismarck Soy of Kenya Navy with 7.26m as Laikipia Air Base's Vincent Tarus scaled 7.19 for third place. K. Magut of Kahawa cleared 4.20m to win the pole vault title with W Kirui (Nanyuki) scoring 4.00m for silver. R. Koech(Laikipia) got 3.80m for bronze. John Gikonyo threw a distance of 64.00m to win men's javelin.  