As the team of investigators embarked on a climb to the scene of FlySax aircraft crash in the Aberdare ranges, at some point, the focus shifted to two detectives. All their colleagues, including their seniors, had given up on the daunting climb, which had started at an altitude of 2,500 metres above sea level at Njabini Forest Station and which was to end at an altitude of above 3,400 metres. If Ms Nancy Ekakoro, a forensic expert from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) and Ms Donna Nyamunga, a pathologist, withdrew, then, the crash investigations would have to be halted. Yet, the families of the crew and passengers of the ill-fated plane were waiting for news about their loved ones. DESPARADO POINT The detectives were part of the coordinating team led by Kinangop Deputy County Commissioner Daniel Nyameti and National Disaster Management Unit deputy director Pius Masai. They had to make their way to the wreckage of the aircraft. But to do that they had to endure the narrow, muddy and rocky trail, surrounded by a bamboo canopy, not to mention dangers and risks. Without them, Mr Martin Nyuguto, who was in charge of the Homicide Section and also in-charge of the FlySax aircraft investigations, would either have been forced to call off the trip or, proceed but plan for an extra day for the investigations. Like other persons of interests in the mission to the Elephant Summit, where the wreckage lay, Nancy and Donna had been assigned an aide each to see them through the journey; motivating them when they despaired; guiding and offering a helping hand whenever one was needed. Also assigned aides were the three Nation journalists accompanying the investigators. A short distance to the Desperado, where the terrain was expected to level off, Nancy’s aides realised that the investigator was about to give up. However, he encouraged her on, assuring her that the team was only a few metres to a levelled terrain. DANGEROUS PATHWAY At Desperado point, another an aide whispered to Nancy; “You are our only hope, we are counting on you and Donna. You are the only representatives from your units. Think of what happens to this entire team if you withdraw at this point yet we are a short distance to the target. We will allow you to walk at your own pace until we hit the target.” The words re-energised Nancy, who appeared weak and withdrawn after hours of heavy sweating as she made her way up. Hearing these words, she suddenly brightened, eyed Donna and with a bright smile loud whispered; “no retreat, we must all make it to the target.” Then louder, while facing Donna she said “at our own pace.” With that, both sprung to their feet, Donna leading the way, a pace she was to maintain to the Summit. From Desperado, it’s about four kilometres to Elephant Peak, but it is the most risky stretch, through the dangerously rocky pathway. HIGHLY FLAMMABLE Unlike in all other points where the team commander Tsuma Sydney of the Kenya Wildlife Service voluntarily explained to us about the stretch, at Desperado, he kept quiet. After many questions from the journalists, he called them aside and said: “Desperado simply means a point of despair. This is the point where most adventurers visiting the Elephant Peak give up". Desperado point marks three-quarters of the journey to Elephant Peak. Beyond it is a thick bamboo forest, which gives way to short red cider shrubs that our guide said are highly flammable even when green. Beyond these are the cliffs with equally narrow paths marking the entry into Elephant Peak, starting from Elephant Tail, to Elephant Back. “Concentrate on the path, do not look down the cliff because if you do, you will find yourself down there," one guide said. "Don’t miss a step, its more than a 100-feet fall, remain focused.” ASHES TO ASHES Finally, at the Summit, the location of the FlySax aircraft, the investigators embarked on a three-hour search for clues, carefully examining the scene, from where they gathered 31 exhibits, which were finally packed and named “Exhibit 32”. As the investigators went about their job, most of the accompanying team went to sleep. The plane was lying in a ditch it had made after its left wing hit the peak, killing the eight passengers and two pilots. The wreckage lay about 50 feet from the actual point of the crash. One of the mutilated bodies was found about 10 feet from the point of the crash, between two rocks. The scene underlies just how quickly the tide of time can turn, turning dust to dust and ashes to ashes.   The condition of the eight passengers and crew is not yet known.