Former Chief Government Pathologist Moses Njue was on Monday charged in a Meru court with stealing a heart while performing an autopsy, the second time he is facing such an accusation. The court heard that on March 12,2015 at Consolata Hospital in Meru while performing an autopsy, he stole the heart of Benedict Karau. Dr Njue denied the charge when he appeared before Meru Chief Magistrate Lucy Ambasi. The pathologist also faced two other charges of removing the heart without permission and destroying the heart of the deceased. The prosecution told the court that on diverse dates between March 12 and September 18, 2015 at Meru Funeral home, Dr Njue destroyed the heart of the deceased after stealing it knowing that it might be required as evidence. PERSONAL BOND His lawyer Victor Andande made an application that he be released on a personal bond. “l request the court to release the accused on bond; I also pray that I be supplied with witness statements and any other documents that the prosecution intends to rely on during trial,” said Mr Andande. The court declined to free the pathologists on a personal bond after prosecutors, led by Claire Muriithi, opposed the application. “The accused is a state officer; he should be granted bond terms but not a personal bond. Am not objecting to him being released on reasonable bond terms,” said Ms Muriithi. CASH BAIL The court however ordered Dr Njue to deposit a cash bail of Sh500,000 or Sh2million bond to secure his release. The case will be mentioned on June 28 and heard on August 6, 2018. Dr Njue, who is the current Chief Executive of Embu Referral Hospital, is facing other charges relating to theft of body parts. In May, he was charged with stealing the heart of of Timothy Mwandi Muumbo while performing an autopsy on June 25, 2015. He denied stealing the heart at Lee Funeral Home three years ago. EIGHT YEARS He was charged at a Nairobi court alongside his son, Lemuel Mureithi - who was his assistant pathologist. The doctor, who was also a member of the Kenya Medical Laboratory Technicians and Technologists Board for eight years between 2004 and 2011, has also been charged alongside his son Lemuel, the school’s director Lucy Kanyiri and a student Evans Nyagaka, with operating a medical college without State approval.   Ex-government pathologist Moses Njue accused of stealing Benedict Karau’s heart.