Opposition leaders on Sunday said they will ask ODM leader Raila Odinga to clarify whether he is still the Nasa leader. Speaking at Athi River African Inland Church, Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka said they want Mr Odinga to make clear his stand. "We must sit down and ask our brother Raila whether he has moved on or whether he is still with us," he said on Sunday. He said he is hopeful that Nasa presidential dream will be realized in 2022 and urged for patience among supporters. He was in the company of Mr Moses Wetang'ula (Ford-Kenya leader) and Mr Musalia Mudavadi (ANC leader). PEACE PACT His remark comes following the peace pact between Mr Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta on March 9, calling for unity and an end to hostilities brought about by the contentious presidential elections last year. The leaders further rekindled calls for electoral justice, saying the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) must be reconstituted because it lacks a quorum after several officials resigned. Mr Wetang'ula said the peace deal has weakened Mr Odinga's resolve to push for electoral integrity. He said the truce is not a cure for the country's sicknesses. "Our General has jumped the wall. He was not felled but he dropped his gun but we are soldiers and we will fight on," Mr Wetang'ula said. PAST FORGOTTEN He observed that despite the deal, corruption is still rife but Mr Odinga has not raised a finger against the government. "After the handshake our brother is not talking about electoral justice. The sages say when a noisy dog keeps quiet you know it is chewing a huge bone. It is bad manners to talk while eating," he said, sparking uproar among the congregants. The Ford-Kenya leader took issue with Mr Odinga's decision "to forget the past and forge ahead". Mr Wetang'ula said that they will continue to fight for justice and equity in the country. UNITY But Mr Mudavadi said all leaders must be involved in the efforts to heal the nation, beginning with reforms at the electoral agency. "We want genuine national dialogue which involves all Kenyans," he said. He said that rather than wait for recommendations from the Building Bridges to Unity Advisory Task Force after one year, the agency must be revamped urgently. "According to the gazette notice which appointed the 14-member committee, the committee will give its report after one year but does reforming the IEBC need to wait for one year? "Everybody knows IEBC needs to be reformed, why are we dragging our feet?" he posed. The task force was conceived by the peace pact and it aims at advising Mr Kenyatta and Mr Odinga on how to end ills afflicting the nation such as ethnic antagonism and competition, lack of national ethos, inclusivity, devolution, safety and security and corruption. It has been gazetted.   Veteran politician relishes the moment as an ‘elder statesman’ as his supporters call for more to be done to spread the cheer of the ‘handshake’.