On Tuesday afternoon this past week, reports emerged that a plane originating from Kitale headed to Nairobi’s Jomo Kenyatta International Airport had disappeared from the radar. The missing flight had two members of crew and eight passengers, and the first report from the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority (KCAA) indicated that it had last been spotted in the early afternoon a few nautical miles from Nairobi. Tragically, the plane was later found a couple of days later having crashed into the Aberdare ranges. We must condole with the bereaved families and help them find a way of dealing with their immense and gruesome loss. ACTIVATED However, when the disappearance of the plane was announced by the KCAA, the following two sentences caught my eye and gave me pause for deep introspection: “Search and Rescue teams from AAID, KCAA, KWS and other agencies were activated immediately and have as at this evening yielded no results. They have paused the search for the night and shall resume at first light tomorrow morning.” STATEMENT This message was sent out to the public through a press statement on Tuesday evening and circulated widely through social media platforms. The fact that the message was cleared by the leadership of the KCAA for release to the public led me to the inevitable conclusion that there must be something wrong with our values, since it is not possible that the insensitivity communicated in it was isolated to the staff at KCAA who wrote and distributed it. Firstly, the list of agencies involved in the search sounded quite casual, and it was not reassuring that there were additional unnamed “other agencies” involved in the rescue effort. Why were they not named? The list betrays a casual approach to the rescue effort, almost as if the statement was being released as a perfunctory requirement in some manual and was not really meant to be taken seriously. Ideally there would have been a communication arm of a multi-agency rescue mission that would release accurate and more detailed information than happened at that time. RESCUE Secondly, and perhaps more importantly, the statement indicated that at some point, the search and rescue effort was “paused for the night” and that they would resume “at first light in the morning”. One can only imagine the feelings of the family members who knew that their loved ones had been on the flight and might at that very moment be slowly bleeding to death in a cold forest while hoping against hope that a rescue team would find them in good time. The fact that we were comfortable abandoning the search, and advertising the fact as well only meant that we placed a very low relative value on the lives of those that were involved. RELIGIOUSLY This brings me to the crux of the matter. In this country, the life of a common citizen is completely worthless. We do not subscribe to the notion that “all lives matter” or that every human life is worth saving. While paying lip-service to being a religiously inspired people that value human life “beginning at conception” as inscribed in our constitution, our actions demonstrate that we do not really care about the lives of our fellow citizens. If we really valued all lives, we would have been too shamefaced to admit that darkness had hampered our continued search for possible survivors of the crash. It was clear that abandoning the search and rescue effort when we did ensured that there was absolutely no chance that anyone would survive the crash. A badly injured person in a dark cold forest is unlikely to survive “until first light in the morning”. COMMITMENT A people that truly value every single life would do everything possible to get to the site of the crash in the shortest possible time, with the intention of giving every survivor the greatest possible chance of getting out alive. It is my considered opinion that saving this country will not be a viable project without a clear and demonstrable commitment to the protection and respect of every single life within our borders. Atwoli is an associate professor and dean of Moi University School of Medicine. Lukoye@gmail.com  