Murang’a Governor Mwangi Wa Iria has urged politicians and government agencies to exercise caution in the fight against contraband sugar so that they do not target manufacturers who use sugar for industrial purposes. The governor expressed concerns that the fight against illicit sugar is slowly changing and could now be targeting manufacturers who use industrial sugar. Speaking to journalists in Gatanga on Wednesday, Mr Wa Iria said most industries pass through a stringent process to ensure quality and unfairly targeting them will hurt the country’s economy. INDUSTRIAL SUGAR "Let us separate the war on illicit sugar and sugar meant for industrial purposes. It is not only unfair but it is immoral to classify industrial sugar as illicit because some of these major companies don't trade in sugar for domestic use. Interfering with these manufacturers will hurt the economy in a big way," the governor said. Mr Wa Iria said he has worked in major companies in the country including East African Breweries, The Agha Khan Group and the Kenya Cooperative Creameries and all of them require sugar for production purposes, noting that targeting such companies is bad for the economy. EACC On corruption, Governor Wa Iria differed with some politicians who are calling for the disbandment of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC), saying the anti-graft body should be strengthened instead of being wished away. He said politicians should give the EACC and other government agencies time to fight corruption instead of interfering with those agencies on daily basis. "The President has set up institutions that are able to fight corruption in this country but we are interfering with the agencies on a daily basis which is not good for the country. We have come from a politicking period then to the “resist” movement and now the corruption hullabaloo; politicians should leave the war on graft to the relevant agencies and embark on development projects," said Governor Wa Iria. He regretted that the war on corruption has been turned into mudslinging.  