Although the furthest an African country has ever gone in the Fifa World Cup is the quarter-final stage, players born in Africa but playing for European countries have made lasting impressions on the competition since the 1950s. Some have actually won the Cup. This tradition will continue in Russia 2018, regardless of who the eventual winner will be. With his 13 strikes in the 1958 tournament, Moroccan-born Just Fontaine, who played for France, still holds the highest number of goals scored in a single tournament. And only Germany’s Miroslav Klose and Gerd Muller with 16 and 14 respectively and Brazil’s Ronaldo with 15, have surpassed his tally. But they needed the benefit of other editions of the tournament to do so. The French team that won the 1998 World Cup had three key African players. Marcel Desailly was a Ghanaian by birth – his original name is Odenke Abbey – while Patrick Vieira was born in Senegal and migrated to France at the age of eight. The third and most important – yes, it is an uncomfortable fact because all 11 players are equal but some are more equal than others – was Zinedine Zidane. He was born in France of Algerian immigrants.     Over the decades, innovative football coaches have given the world a variety of systems in an effort to wrest that prize. In his award-winning book, “Inverting the Pyramid: The History of Football Tactics,” Jonathan Wilson writes of the centrality of Zidane in manager Aime Jacquet’s plan. He had settled on a 4-2-3-1 formation which eventually worked, capping it all with a 3-0 routing of Brazil in the final. But it needed some calibration just because of the balding man who would later be voted the Best European Player of the last 50 years. Wilson writes: “The 4-2-3-1 is just one variant of the five-man midfield. One of the attacking midfielders can be sacrificed for an additional holder, producing either a 4-3-2-1 – the Christmas tree – or the modern 4-3-3. Terry Venables experimented with it with England ahead of Euro 96, but it was at the 1998 World Cup that a side using it achieved its first notable success and it entered the mainstream. “The problem faced by the France manager, Aime Jacquet, was accommodating Zidane, one of the greatest playmakers the world has known, but a player of limited pace and almost no defensive instinct. His solution was to give him effectively a free role. But to do that without destabilising his team defensively, (Jacquet) followed the Italian convention and fielded three midfielders whose function was primarily defensive - Didier Deschamps, Emmanuel Petit and Christian Karembeu.” Ghana and Senegal, both of whom have reached the World Cup quarters, and Algeria, who were denied progress by the infamous Disgrace of Gijon perpetrated by Germany and Austria in 1982 and whose star players, Rabah Madjar and Lakhdar Belloumi lit up that competition, can therefore feel justified in claiming a piece of the trophy. They still hope to win it outright someday – and Senegal are in Russia - but they have plenty of work to do. Another African country that is permanently etched in World Cup legend because of the exploits of its native son is Mozambique. This one has never even qualified for the final rounds and is by any standard a minnow in African football. And yet it produced the one player who has always been mentioned in the same breath as Pele: Eusebio. He was the leading scorer of the 1966 World Cup with nine goals. He led his adopted country, Portugal, to a third place finish and retired as one of the greatest footballers of all time. I found the story of how he left Mozambique for greener pastures in Europe engrossing. Like almost all the others, you cannot escape a feeling of sadness when you think of all the rivers of blood that flowed to achieve African political independence against the realisation that without migrating to the lands of their former colonial masters, the fortunes of many African players are doomed. They can never reach their full potential. Eusebio used to play for an amateur side in Maputo – at that time called Laurenco Marques. In honour of the famous Brazilian side of the 1950s, the boys, who played with balls of rugs, called themselves Os Brasileiros, which translates as The Brazilians. He was a talented forward but still suffered rejection by some of the clubs he tried as a youth. Unbeknown to him, however, the stars above were aligning themselves in his favour and would shine very brightly later.   Béla Guttmann, coach of Benfica in Portugal, was having a hair cut in a Lisbon barber shop when he bumped into Carlos Bauer, an old Brazilian friend who had once played for him. Bauer, now a coach back home, was taking his side on a five week tour of Africa. Guttmann asked him to be on the look-out for good talent that he could sign. After about two months, the two friends met again in the same barber shop and Bauer told Guttmann of his find. There was this forward with Sporting Lisbon’s feeder club in Maputo whom he was really interested in but was short of cash. They were still talking. Though almost certain to be taken by Sporting because of the old ties that bound them, Bauer still held out hopes of getting the boy. Guttmann listened intently and asked all the right questions without giving any clue about his intentions. As soon as they parted, he phoned the Mozambican club and hijacked the discussions. Two days later, Eusebio was his. Eusebio had a rough start in Portugal and contemplated returning to Mozambique. What Guttmann had done was considered unethical and a very public conflict broke out over him between Sporting and Benfica. He was at one time hidden away for fear of being kidnapped and the pressure became too much for him. But for the steadfast insistence to hold out by his mother – who liked what she had got from the deal – he would have called it quits. WON THREE EUROPEAN CUPS Ferenc Puskas of Hungary was the greatest European player when Eusebio made his debut for Benfica. Fifa records also place him among the greatest of all time having become the top goal scorer of the 20th century. He was voted the best player of the 1954 World Cup. He also won the European Cups of 1959, 1960 and 1966. The 1962 European Cup final played in Amsterdam featured Benfica and Real Madrid, led by the prolific Puskas. Puskas scored a hat-trick, but Benfica won the match 5-3. Something memorable happened at the end of that match. Puskas took off his shirt and offered it to Eusebio. This gesture was widely interpreted as the gracious passing of the torch to Europe’s new superstar, for Puskas soon called it a day. And from then on, there was no looking back. Eusebio became the undisputed star of the 1966 World Cup. He eclipsed Pele by a distance and the Brazilian vowed never to play in the World Cup again after getting the roughest treatment from defenders as the world champions exited at the group stage. Of course, he went back on that word and was once again The King in 1970.   So, in 2018, Paul Pogba (France and not Guinea), Danny Welback (England, not Ghana), Romelu Lukaku (Belgium, not DR Congo) and Jerome Boateng (Germany, not Ghana) among others will be falling in step with a long tradition that is not about to end. Africans indeed win the World Cup – but not in the way you and me would prefer. **** ***** ***** ***** ***** Over the years, my job has taken me to various African cities. Some time back, I sat to compare notes with Austin Oduor, captain of Gor Mahia’s Nelson Mandela Cup winners in 1987. For about 10 years, he had been on the move, year after year, contesting one Cup or the other. He said: “Remove the Arab north and the bottom south, I mean South Africa. This belt…” he held out and moved his hands to illustrate the shape of a belt. “This belt…” he shook his head, saying: “problem….big problem…” I nodded. He didn’t have to finish the sentence. I understood. A few years ago, I went to Kigali for a symposium and froze at the city’s cleanliness and orderliness. The symposium was taking place in a five-star hotel. After it was finished, I impatiently told my cameraman: “Let’s get out of here. We must see the real Kigali. Let’s go to the Kirinyaga Road of this place!” We walked for long and finally came to what we thought had to be either the “Kirinyaga Road or Kariokor of Kigali. Or their Globe Cinema round-about.” But everywhere was very clean! In fact, it seemed cleaner than the Nairobi of the 1960s in which I grew. I couldn’t believe the evidence of my own eyes. I asked my colleague: “Are you telling me that we Africans can actually keep a city clean and orderly?” He was about half my age and was shocked to hear that Nairobi was ever clean. “If you have seen one African city,” I told him, “You have seen them all. Traffic gridlocks, heaps of garbage, potholes, shanties, no plan.” This week, I read that Rwanda had become Arsenal FC’s official sleeve partner as part of the country’s drive to become a leading global tourist destination. Oh, Rwanda, what an imaginative deal! And for the rest of us: remember what Mr Squirrel said when he couldn’t reach the berries in the old African fable? “They are not even ripe!” he yelled, dusting himself as he walked away hungry and angry. We need to craft a suitably dismissive statement about this development.  