Nation Media Group’s staff football wing, Nation FC, on Friday received a major boost with the group’s chief executive Stephen Gitagama pledging full support for the fast-rising team. Nation FC won the 16-team StarTimes Inter Media ‘World Cup’ tournament at Nairobi’s Upper Hill School last weekend outwitting arch-rivals The Standard Group 1-0, thanks to utility player Eric Musungu’s goal, to lift the trophy and Sh100,000 cash prize.       They presented the trophy and tournament’s Most Valuable Player’s award, won by NTV cameraman Eric Isinta, to the CEO at Nation Centre at a ceremony where Gitagama pledged to keep supporting the team alongside other staff welfare initiatives. “I’m proud of this team. Sports is good because it brings people together and also reduces medical bills,” said Gitagama, who once coached football in his free time of his early professional life. “I want to assure you of my and the company’s support going forward. Congratulations for the good work you have done so far and for winning this media tournament and for making NMG proud,” the CEO added. While also congratulating Gitagama on his appointment as NMG’s chief executive officer earlier in the week, Nation FC coach Mark Agutu and team manager Elias Makori on Friday thanked the CEO and company’s management for the support they had accorded the team since the squad started training at Nairobi’s Railway Club in February this year. “We only started serious training in February and five months down the line, we have this title. This shows the potential the team has and the power the team enjoys in bringing staff from across all departments together,” said coach-player Agutu. Besides playing in invitational tournaments and corporate friendly matches, Nation FC has also enrolled in the Nairobi Left Foot Sports League’s division five competition. The Left Foot Sports league is a Sunday afternoon corporate tournament with over 100 teams drawn into five divisions. In its three division five matches played so far, Nation FC have won two (2-0 over Manarat FC and 5-1 against General Electric) after drawing their opening game against South C Academy, 2-2. Nation FC’s Mombasa bureau football team is also drawn in the Left Foot Sports’ Mombasa league. On June 16, Nation Mombasa will be among teams competing in the Safaricom Mombasa Inter-Media Tournament. On the way to the final of the StarTimes tournament, Nation FC beat Kass Media 3-0 before drawing with star-studded Qwetu FM (1-1) and Freelancers (2-2) in group games. Musungu’s double saw Nation FC beat Homeboyz Radio 2-0 in the quarter-final while in the semi-final, he struck once again with captain Allan Munga making it 2-0 win over Kenya Broadcasting Corporation in the the tournament organised in conjunction with the Sports Journalists’ Association of Kenya (SJAK).   The Standard Group earned Sh75,000 for finishing second while Capital FM got Sh50,000 for third place. So far, Nation FC has toured Mombasa, Naivasha and Nakuru for friendly matches with county teams and are scheduled to make a return trip to Mombasa on July 27 to play against the Mombasa County Government in a match that will also celebrate the opening of the new Bomu Stadium constructed by the county.   The day-long tournament attracted 16 teams