Celebrated former Kenya Sevens skipper and Kenya Simbas utility Humphrey Kayange has officially retired from international rugby. The 35-year-old, who played for defunct Ulinzi and Mwamba as a forward and back, announced his retirement on Friday. “It’s my turn to say....Goodbye!!! It has been about two years now that I have been trying to get back to the field and run out with the brothers one last time,” said Kayange on his Facebook page from the UK. “Guess it wasn’t to be. It is time to say goodbye to my international career in both 7s and 15s.” Kayange said the last 12 years have been an "unbelievable experience" for him and "loved every minute of it."   “I have been blessed to play the game for more than a decade and to explore my talent and abilities while injury free for the better part of it,” said Kayange, who has been on-and-off the pitch since sustaining a knee injury during the 2014 Commonwealth Games that saw him going under the knife.   THANKED BROTHERS Kayange paid attribute to the people who have been of great influence to his rugby career including his parents and his brothers Collins Injera and Michael Agevi.   The famous Imonyi brothers of Kayange, Injera and Agevi were for the first time drafted to the Kenya Sevens team at ago for the USA and New Zealand legs of the 2013/2014 World Sevens Series. “I have shared amazing memories with my brothers as well while representing the republic,” said Kayange, who also paid tribute to his employer Kenya Bureau of Standards (KEBS) for having been supportive through. “They allowed me to go out and explore my talents,” said Kayange, who has been both with Kenya Sevens and Simbas sides since 2005. The Kakamega High School alumnus, who also served as a World Rugby Anti-Doping ambassador, described Mwamba RFC as the rock that his rugby foundation laid on. “I am always glad to have your back guys and know that you have mine,” said Kayange, who thanked Kenyans for their support.   “The rugby fraternity made it all worthwhile and special through the joy and the tears. The experiences shared will never be forgotten. The critics made us work harder so thanks to each and every one of you,” said Kayange, who achieved his dream of taking part at the Olympics during the 2016 Rio Summer Games and guiding Kenya to its first World Rugby Sevens Series victory at 2016 Singapore Sevens. “I will take them all with me to the next chapter as nothing compares to the satisfaction you get after a game.” Kayange said he will now concentrate on his duty as a researcher at KEBS besides getting his Level II Coaching accreditation and as Athletes Representative at the National Olympic Committee of Kenya (Noc-K). “I look forward to many more opportunities where I can give back to the sport that has given me so much,” said Kayange, the Bristol University graduate.  