Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko has urged Kajiado County leaders to focus on development and the wellbeing of people who elected them. Mr Tobiko said that the leaders should speak with one voice in the ‘spirit of the March 9 handshake’ between President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition leader Raila Odinga. He asked the leaders to consider bringing on board leaders like former governor David Nkedianye for purposes of development. He said that sharp divisions among the Maa community was responsible for slow development in the area. “As leaders, we can do much better if we concentrate on how to improve lives in our society. As we speak, we are our own enemies and sharp divisions among different clans is our undoing,” said Mr Tobiko. POLITICKING He was speaking in Kitengela on Tuesday during the homecoming ceremony of Oloosirkon /Sholinke Member of County Assembly Kaindi Kaesha. The CS challenged the leaders to focus on improving lives of Kajiado residents. He urged leaders to stop too much politicking and instead educate livestock keepers to adopt better livestock husbandry and farming, among other agribusiness ventures. He added that politics should now take the backbench and criticised those who have already started plotting for 2022 polls. “Kenyans just voted the other day and before the dust settles, most politicians are already clamouring for 2022 elections instead of thinking of how to prevent impacts of drought that has led to loss of thousands of livestock,” said Tobiko. The Environment CS was accompanied by Kajiado Deputy Governor Martin Moshisho, nominated Senator Judy Pareno, MPs George Sunkuiya (Kajiado West), Peris Tobiko (Kajiado East) and a number of Kajiado County Assembly MCAs. DEVELOPMENT Deputy Governor Moshisho said that all leaders in the country have a role to play in the development of the devolved unit. Senator Pareno said that they would ensure that the Ward Development Fund Bill is passed. MP Sunkuiya appealed to leaders to identify the Maa community kingpin in order to bring everyone together to give the community direction. Ms Peris Tobiko promised to serve her constituents regardless of their party affiliations. “Our President (Uhuru Kenyatta) has called on Kenyans to unite we must win the war of division among leaders as well as our people,” said Ms Tobiko.  