Just a few days after we celebrated a government pledge of cheaper electricity bills this month, this will come as a huge setback. Households and other consumers will now be required to pay more, when a new billing structure is implemented from tomorrow, as the government has gone back on its promise to cut tariffs across board. What we had lauded as rare good news for the consumers, who have been grappling with the high cost of this essential utility, has become stillborn. Instead, the new rates announced by the Energy Regulatory Commission will see monthly bills nearly double for some customers. HARD TIMES Restaurants, bars, barber shops and beauty salons must brace themselves for hard times ahead. It will be particularly bad for these small businesses, which rely on electricity for their operations. Households, too, will feel the pinch as the higher expenditure on electricity will deny them funds they could have put to other pressing needs. The reversal of the pledge to ensure affordable power bills is disappointing. ERC director-general Pavel Oimeke only last week told a parliamentary committee that power bills would drop by eight per cent, to the excitement of small business owners and households. Of course, the authorities might point out that they are sensitive to the plight of the very poor, who consume below 15 units every month. Unfortunately, the regime of high power costs will continue. Not long ago, there was an outcry over huge power bills for households and industries. COST OF POWER Then, consumers were stunned when they were slapped with bills that were double what they had been paying. Though high generation, distribution and maintenance costs are cited to justify the high cost of power, it's also quite evident that it is pushed up by the numerous levies slapped on consumers. They include the fuel levy and foreign currency adjustment costs. High electricity bills spell doom for the country, which badly needs reliable and affordable power. This calls for greater investment in not just hydro-power generation, but also in alternative sources such as wind and geothermal schemes to boost power output.  