Agriculture featured prominently in the 2018/2019 Budget as a key focus area in the financial year starting on July 1. There was a specific reference on the need to buttress the livestock sub-sector by supporting smallholder farmers and promoting use of appropriate farming techniques in addition to making affordable credit facilities available. The sub-sector is increasingly emerging as a crucial cog that will make Kenya’s economy more competitive and well rated not only in East Africa but also on the continent. This renewed focus can only be a pointer to one thing: The untapped opportunities in the sub-sector. The industry is big business in Kenya, contributing 13 per cent of the gross domestic product (GDP) and accounting for 30 per cent of the country’s agricultural output, according to the ‘2018 Kenya Economic Survey’. The Kenya National Bureau of Statistics puts the gross marketed production value for livestock and its related products at Sh135 billion while highlighting the growing demand for livestock and related products in Kenya and beyond. DAMAGING CHALLENGE But the sector faces some damaging challenge: Perennial rise in livestock-related crime. The human cost of cattle raids is immense; hundreds of people are killed every year and many more displaced. Cattle raids have escalated in the past few decades in West Pokot, Baringo, Laikipia, Turkana and Samburu counties in northwestern and central Kenya. The ‘National Police Service Quarterly Crime Report’ for January-April 2018 shows 2,483 cases of cattle rustling reported. The raids are becoming even more sophisticated and deadly. Kenya must change this narrative by embracing new technology. One of the ways to discourage cattle rustling is by improving how the stolen animals are tracked and traced. This can be achieved through the use of the innovative Livestock Identification and Trace-Back System (Lits), which utilises the Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) microchips technology that uses electromagnetic fields to automatically identify and track tags attached to animals. Lits encodes data on microchips in the tags which can be retrieved at any time via radio waves. PRODUCTIVITY DATA Animals that are easily identifiable are less likely to be stolen and, if they are, can easily be found and the thieves apprehended. The technology can support the livestock sector by providing accurate and real-time animal population and productivity data, which would help to map out livestock resources. This can, in turn, help to inform national and county governments in planning and managing resources geared towards increasing revenues from livestock productivity, marketing and trade. Additionally, with a tamper-proof system, financial institutions can identify livestock keepers and use their animals as collateral for access to credit and insurance. Botswana has recorded remarkable results from adopting this technology in 2001, when cattle rustling threatened 60 per cent of its lucrative beef export market. After assisting all livestock owners to embrace Lits, cases of cattle rustling reduced significantly. In 2013, the Botswana government adopted the Digital Ear-Tag system in a bid to eliminate cattle rustling. The improved technology reduced the number of cattle rustling incidents by 55 per cent — from 327 a year in 2011 to 146 in 2015. Today, the livestock industry is a key driver and backbone of the Botswana economy. TECHNOLOGY However, technology on its own is not enough. There is a need for concerted and coordinated efforts by all the stakeholders. Notably, the Kenyan government put in place legislation and regulations under the Kenya Gazette Supplement Number 167 of September 23, 2016 (Branding of Stock Act Cap 357) that compels all cattle owners to brand their livestock. It is equally imperative that this legislation criminalises the slaughter or trade in livestock that do not have an electronic identification mark, effectively ensuring that stolen animals do not find their way into slaughterhouses or markets. The technology has other advantages: Helping veterinary officers to rapidly isolate animals for treatment, update health records at the point of treatment, track weight gain in selected animals, correlate feeding programmes with yield, select specific bulls for breeding programmes and track the family tree of any chosen animal. This enables farmers to increase and monitor their production. INTERNATIONAL MARKETS Further, once fully implemented, the digital livestock identification system will also help open up access to international livestock markets in the Euro zone that have eluded Kenya for a long time. EU market regulations requires imported beef to have traceable sources and the history of each animal. Livestock are not only food for the people but valuable assets that represent a path out of poverty for families; hence the need to encourage any activity that supports livestock farming as a fundamental instrument for sustainable development and poverty reduction. By so doing, the sub-sector will continue to significantly contribute to improvement of the livelihoods of Kenyans and achievement of food security in line with the government’s Big Four Agenda. Ms Mwangi is the Executive Director of KCB Foundation. jamwangi@kcbgroup.com  