Kenya’s chief prosecutor has asked the country’s top detective to ensure locked-up suspects in the National Youth Service scandal do not walk to freedom riding on proceeds of crime. Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji on Thursday asked Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti to screen sources of the funds the suspects will deposit in court. SH5 MILLION Kenya’s chief prosecutor has asked the country’s top detective to ensure locked-up suspects in the National Youth Service scandal do not walk to freedom riding on proceeds of crime. Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji on Thursday asked the Director of Public Prosecutions George Kinoti to screen sources of the funds the suspects will deposit in court. In a statement, Mr Haji directed Mr Kinoti to confirm the validity and legitimacy of the securities and funds presented on behalf of the 47 accused persons. The suspects are required to execute a bond of Sh5 million, produce sureties of Sh2 million and deposit Sh1 million cash bail in court, as part of the condition for them to be released. “Concerns have been raised by the Assets Recovery Agency (ARA) that some of the funds intended to be used are not only suspect but the subject of the current cases,” the DPP said in a statement. The suspects are required to present their securities in court and a copy of their identification cards, a valuation report of the security, their passports and a letter of verification from the investigation officer. Although most of the suspects have paid cash bail, the verification is expected to take longer. NDUBAI Former NYS Director-General Richard Ndubai had paid the cash and deposited logbook of his car worth Sh4 million. His brother stood as his surety. Mr Wellington Lubira, former chief finance at NYS, through lawyer Cliff Ombeta, had deposited two logbooks of cars worth Sh3.5 million and his wife was ready to stand surety for him. Mrs Lucy Ngirita also paid the Sh1 million cash and her niece was to stand as her surety. Once released from remand, the accused persons, including former Youth Affairs PS Lillian Omollo, will have to report to the DCI offices in Gigiri once every week until further orders are issued by the court. The court also said none of the suspects should visit their former offices unless accompanied by a police officer and that they should not contact—whether directly or otherwise— any of the staff or witnesses in the case.   Court told that their accounts and assets have been frozen.