The communication channels at the hotel where I work are very foggy. The director and supervisors give out contradicting instructions regarding the same thing, leading to confusion among the staff all the time. As a communication graduate, I feel there are so many gaps in the communication channels. Should I offer my expertise or would this be seen as insubordination?  Effective communication is considered an essential leadership tool in part because of its crucial role in helping to create clarity of expectations and the alignment of teams in the quest of meeting business objectives. As workplaces become more virtual and diverse, the greater becomes the need for effective communication to stem the kind of confusion you associate with your organisation. Since employees look to their leaders for direction, it is important that the latter are able to clearly articulate the mission of their organisation, how its various functions work together in concert and how employees’ individual results contribute to the overall success of the business, without which the ensuing lack of focus would breed chaos and hinder business. With which stakeholders will you share your thoughts and what quality of rapport have you developed with them? What would be a suitable forum and timing for bringing up the matter? Whose support would you count on to succeed? Besides isolating communication lapses and necessary corrective actions, have you considered establishing a baseline based on which to track progress? How could you enhance appropriate and effective use of communication channels in your organisation? How will you embed commitment to follow through the actions you intend to propose? And what concrete data would you present to demonstrate positive impact of your proposed actions on the business? Your effectiveness in lending a hand with communication efforts in your organisation will depend not only on your expertise but also on how you tailor your approach in doing so. As you make your contribution, bear in mind that you may get further by embodying a spirit of helpfulness. You neither want to create the impression that the rest of your organisation is inept nor cast your role as the peerless saviour without whose intervention the organisation may no longer function properly.   Each time I contribute ideas during our weekly brainstorming sessions, some senior members of my team immediately shoot them down.