Planting huge tracts of land by hand can be a tedious activity that could go on for days, increasing the cost of labour for a farmer. In the normal planting system, farmers till the land probably twice first, before sowing the seeds manually. Peter Kahiu, a farmer in Laikipia County, however, does it differently and easily, using a hand-held machine that saves him a great deal. The farmer based in Muhonia village fabricated a planter, which he attaches to a ‘walking tractor’ that requires just a little pushing as it does the planting. Kahiu assembled the planter to enable him practice zero tilling to realise high yields. Zero tilling or no tilling entails planting crops on soil that has remained un-ploughed after the harvest of the previous season. He attaches the single row planter onto a walking tractor that sows seeds in a row throughout the fields. It can plant at least six acres a day. “With this technology, the biomass of the previous harvest is not removed since it forms mulch while the weeds are killed using herbicides,” he explains. Alternatively, to cut or control the weeds, he uses a shallow weeder that he has also fabricated. It’s an equipment akin to a shovel only that its edges is a blade that cuts the weed. The welder sells it at Sh300. Depending on the kind of crop being planted, he charges Sh1,500 for sowing maize and Sh2,500 for beans per acre. When using a tractor, most farmers part with Sh4,500 per acre. His planter has two plastic hoppers mounted parallel on it. One of the hoppers hosts seeds like maize, beans, sorghum or millet, which are the common crops grown in the area. The other hopper hosts fertiliser. Both hoppers have a distributing system that measures the amounts of fertiliser for each seed and the intervals at which the seeds drop. FINALLY GOT A BREAKTHROUGH And as he pushes the walking tractor, a lever at the bottom of the unit touches the ground prompting a seed to drop alongside the fertiliser. “The spacing of the seeds hopper depends on how far apart the crops are being planted, which is six inches for maize while three for millet and beans,” explains Kahiu. But before he plants, he first fixes a ripper into the walking tractor digging up the hard soils, therefore, helping it absorb water during the rainy season. Kahiu, a small-scale maize farmer, started fabricating his planter in 2005 after seeing a similar machine at a shop and in every attempt he failed. “It took me 13 years to come up with this machine, as I perfected it but finally I got a breakthrough.” He has so far received orders from other farmers intending to mechanise and practice conservation agriculture. “I designed this specifically for farmers who cannot afford the services of tractors because of high prices. This machine allows farmers to do away with tilling their land with donkeys and bulls,” he says, noting the machine can also be used where farmers are not practising conservation agriculture. The walking tractor costs between Sh240,000 and Sh300,000, depending on the country of importation and the engine size. However, when he fits on it the planter, Kahiu sells it at Sh400,000. But it is not all rosy for Kahiu whose main challenge is dealing with adulterated fuel which leads to machine breakdown. Agriculturalist Robert Thuo said while making a planter, one has to consider the availability of spare parts, horse power to determine the power of the engine of the walking tractor for the best results on the farm.   Armed with a rake, a tractor, a mower and a baler, Stanley Kiambati is reaping from his agribusiness as shortage of fodder bites.