IN MOSCOW Since the first ball of the 2018 Fifa World Cup was kicked here, teams, fighting for prestige, honour and immortality on the pitch, have launched their campaigns in contrasting fashions. In the fight for a share of Sh79.1 billion prize money on offer here, some players have displayed awe-inspiring performances and brilliance, winning recognition from both friend and foe, while others have left fans dumbfounded, team mates teary-eyed and coaches speechless. Here, Nation Sports samples a few. Messi penalty miss People have made flattering comparisons between Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo who are the two best players in the world at the moment. However, in the eyes of many, Messi’s penalty miss for Argentina against Iceland on Saturday in the first match of Group ‘D’ in Sochi will slightly tilt the scales in favour of Ronaldo, who has had a stellar performance for Portugal here. Messi was looking to match the impact his old rival who has opened his account in the tournament with a sensational hat-trick against Spain on Friday night, but it was not to be. With the scores level 1-1, Iceland conceded a penalty, and Messi stepped up to take it, only for goalkeeper Hannes Halldorsson to dive in the right direction and stopRonaldo’s flying start Cristiano Ronaldo’s flying start to the 2018 Fifa World Cup in Portugal’s first Group ‘B’ match against three-time champions Spain has got tongues wagging here. The reigning Ballon d’Or winner netted all of Portugal’s three goals in 3-3 draw with Spain in Sochi on Friday, and got tongues wagging. The first goal of the tournament from the penalty spot came from Ronaldo, the Real Madrid star picking himself up after being felled by Gerard Pique in the third minute of the match to pick the top right corner, sending David De Ge the wrong way. Diego Costa drew Spain level in the 29th minute but Ronaldo returned with just one minute left to half-time and dribbled past Spain’s defenders to send a ferocious shot that bounces off De Gea’s right leg for a goal. Costa again drew Spain level, heading home a free-kick from deep inside the pitch. Nacho put Spain 3-2 ahead but Ronaldo returned to score again, this time being set up by Rafael Silva to send a ferocious free-kick from outside Spain’s 22-yard box that took a deflection on Spain’s human shield to score on the far right corner, leaving De Gea rooted to the spot. De Gea howler It is the 43rd minute and Spain are level 1-1 with Portugal after Ronaldo and Costa’s goals. Both sets of fans are demanding for more from their teams. Pepe sends the ball forward onto Andre Silva who finds Ronaldo. Ronaldo turns and shoots with his left foot and the ball bounces off De Gea’s right foot into the goal. De Gea is vilified by the press after the match for his poor performance. "I like that there are criticisms," he told journalists in Sochi after the match. "Diego Costa has also been criticised and he scored two goals. I haven't killed anyone, either. I'm happy with the national team.” Bouhaddouz’s own goal Morocco, ranked 41st by Fifa, had been battling all afternoon against fellow rank outsiders Iran in Group ‘C’ match on Friday at St Petersburg. In the fifth minute of time added on, Iran win a free-kick in Morocco’s half, and while attempting to clear the danger, Morocco's forward Aziz Bouhaddouz scores ion his own net with a diving header that left his team mates teary-eyed, fans bewildered and his coach speechless. Bouhaddouz broke down in tears at the final whistle and was helped off the pitch by disappointed team mates.  