The 2018 World Cup hosts Russia have been mentioned in the same breath as Saudi Arabia and first-timers Panama, and have been considered among the lightweights of the tournament. Some have even gone as far as calling Russia, who are ranked 56th globally, the ‘lucky beneficiaries of a Fifa rule that automatically makes host nations one of the competing teams in the World Cup.’ If Russians need a candid assessment of their team, they would have to turn to their former coach Leonid Slutsky. In March, Slutsky told Russians to “admit that you are not a footballing nation and move on.” Slutsky’s stark assessment came in the wake of two humbling home defeats to Brazil and France in March. “When I say that we are not a footballing nation, I do it so that we can figure out why,” Russia’s coach at the Euro 2016 clarified days later on a live television programme. “The fact that we are not the strongest team in the world is obvious to everyone. This is like in Alcoholics Anonymous, when you come in and say: ‘I am so and so and I have a problem’,” the 46-year-old offered. “This is where the recovery and some sort of progress begins.” But Russians are not short of towering figures to look up to for inspiration. Russia, which will spend more than Sh1.3 trillion to host the most expensive World Cup ever staged, could do with lessons from Panama on how to get home fans to rally the home fans around the team. In the physically-imposing figure of Roman Torres, Panamians have a player who etched his name into his nation’s football history by scoring the goal that qualified the team for Russia. The burly Seattle Sounders defender delivered the knockout blow that sealed USA’s fate in the qualifiers, triggering a national holiday, with President Juan Carlos Valera giving the country a day off following the World Cup qualification. On Sunday, Injury-hit Russia named a 23-man squad, with their hopes of performing respectably as hosts riding on attacking duo of Fyodor Smolov and Artem Dzyuba. When Russia plays Saudi Arabia in the opening match on June 14 in Moscow’s Luzhniki Stadium, an eye-watering performance from Smolov or Dzyuba could just prompt president Vladimir Putin to declare June 19 (when Russia plays its second Group ‘A’ match against Egypt) and June 26 (Russia v Luis Suarez’s Uruguay) national holidays, allowing fans to fill Luzhniki Stadium to the rafters, thereby giving the team that extra oomph. Lukily, Russia’s goalkeeper Igor Akinfeev is not short of towering figures to look up to for inspiration. There is LevYashin, Soviet-era footballer widely regarded as the greatest goalkeeper in the history of the sport, and his compatriot Rinat Dasayev. Yashin, born on October 22, 1929 in Moscow and nicknamed ‘Black Spider’, won the Ballon d’Or. He earned status for revolutionising the goalkeeping position by imposing his authority on the entire defence (sweeper-keeper.), and won the 1956 Summer Olympics, and 1960 European Championship with the national team and played in 1958, 1962 and 1966 editions of the World Cup.  