A move to impeach Nakuru County Assembly Speaker Joel Maina Kairu has been scuttled after 35 MCAs withdrew from the ouster motion. The MCAs rescinded their support for the motion seeking the removal of Mr Kairu over alleged incompetence and abuse of office. The move came after intervention by Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika who convened the meeting with a section of the assembly members on Sunday evening in a bid to help initiate dialogue among the MCAs. DIALOGUE In an interview with Nation, Senator Kihika confirmed that she called the meeting to encourage the MCAs to embrace dialogue in solving their grievances to avoid confrontations that might hurt the budget process. “I brokered the truce because l think it is not the right thing to do especially at this time when the 2018/2019 budget process is under way. I call upon the MCAs to drop their bid and embrace dialogue. This period is critical and should be reserved for discussion of important matters about the budget," Ms Kihika said. She said she intervened because she understands assembly issues because she has been there. Sources told Nation that also present at the meeting were two MPs, among them Samuel Arama (Nakuru Town West). A source who sought anonymity said Senator Kihika pleaded with the MCAs to save the Speaker from ouster. The 78-member assembly now seems divided and it remains to be seen whether those pushing for the removal of Mr Kairu, after serving for only eight months, will carry the day. The motion is sponsored by Biashara Ward MCA Peter Njoroge Wanyanguthie. Mr Wanyanguthie accuses the Speaker of denying MCAs funds to go for benchmarking in foreign countries. Interestingly, six MCAs are currently in Arusha, Tanzania, for benchmarking. “We were allocated Sh15 million for foreign trips but only Sh9 million is available as the financial year comes to an end and what I am asking is, where did Sh6 million go? Mr Speaker must answer this integrity question,” said Mr Wanyanguthie. Mr Wanyanguthie also accuses the Speaker of ignoring the contribution of the MCAs while nominating two members into the county assembly public service board. He said nominated MCAs Alice Kering and Cecilia Karanja were nominated to the board without the consent of other MCAs. The notice of motion to impeach him was filed last week.   MCAs have been urged to embrace dialogue to address their grievances.