Charles Nyukuri, 36, works for Amnesty International Kenya as the Human Rights Education Campaign Manager. With eight years experience in fundraising, designing and managing different projects nationally and regionally, he has also worked in a senior management role for more than six years and has developed children-safety training manuals for use both nationally and regionally.  Human rights education and activism, what does this mean? What does your job entail? I work with young people in the formal and informal context to create safe learning environments for children. I also coordinate the national essay competition, human rights festivals and coordinate exchange visits among schools. I also help school management, teachers, non-teaching staff abide by their child protection and safeguarding policies. I work with 25 schools across four counties Kisii, Kisumu, Homabay and Nairobi, reaching out to approximately 100 teachers and 11,000 students to help students and schools enjoy learning, share experiences, treat each other with respect and dignity. I also conduct human rights education and activism through arts-based activities.  Your undergraduate was in law and your master’s in children rights; what key things influenced your choice of specialisation? During my undergraduate studies, my thesis was on ‘Rights of the unborn child’. My Masters focused on research about the ‘Inadequacies of child labour laws and its effects of child labour practices’. Throughout my life I have been concerned about how vulnerable the child is and I swore to myself that I would study something that will help me contribute to securing rights of the child. In campus and during my masters I did not have ready fees and relied on bursaries and Higher Education Loans. I am lucky I managed to get through these challenges.  What do you miss most about being an undergraduate student at Moi University? I liked my classmates because I was in a class where people had to think critically – we actually had a course on critical thinking. As a student you have a lot of time to figure out what you want to do in future and identify mentors who can help you through your career. I also loved art and did Dejeeying at some point in third year. It was fun while it lasted.  What ignited your passion for child safety? I think this is an area often ignored by our communities. We have delegated a lot of responsibility to teachers and institutions of learning. Somehow people feel like when they drop their children in schools they will turn out to be angels after eight years (primary) or four years (high school). The recent cases of unrest in high schools such as school fires and strikes illustrate the challenge that we have as a society and the need for parents to be more involved in the lives of their children.  What key achievements in your career would you highlight, this far? Having a relationship with schools and coming up with innovative ideas that help students participate and open up about their school experiences is fulfilling. Raising funds to help these multiple projects be implemented in schools and accounting to the partners. Coming up with the Jurist of the Year Award which is a partnership with the Law Society of Kenya that has in the past five years recognised Advocates who take up Economic Social and Cultural matters on a pro bono basis.  What was your first job and what was your greatest challenge? When I was 25, I worked in a law firm as a legal assistant. I worked there for six months before moving to FIDA Kenya, LRF (Legal Resources Foundation), then to Amnesty International. My greatest challenge was that I had so many dreams and ambitions and I felt like I did not have time to achieve them. I was also passionate about facilitation but I was shy to speak in front of people. I felt like if I had a platform where I could speak, I could change one life a year.  What would you say is the greatest impediment to the achievement of children’s safety? Parents’ involvement. Many people are taking their children to boarding schools at a very early age and cutting off communication with the children; letting them make life decisions for themselves. The Ministry of Education has come up with structures that can facilitate constructive dialogue and systems that one can engage in but unfortunately, parents have delegated the responsibility of raising their children to schools.  What is your greatest fear in life? Children’s voices not being heard. I believe any school setting that prioritises the voice of children enjoys the benefits of their creative minds. School managers should embrace opportunities for engaging students and creating platforms for dialogue.  Do you have a professional mentor? I have been very fortunate to have mentors who have guided me through critical thinking, leadership and facilitation skills. I maintain a cordial relationship with all of them.  What would you say to a young person interested in a career in the area of children rights? They need to study about the rights of children, read more on the education systems and partner with organisations that promote these practices. Working with children in four counties, I have realised the cultural contexts, including traditions and customs, and urban and rural lifestyles makes students behave differently. You also need mentors in the area and most importantly, visit organisations that work in children’s rights and understand what they do.  What would you do differently if you went back to the start of your career? Document every small achievement and challenge I have faced. I believe this would help someone else, because I believe success comes in drops.  