National celebrations to mark Kenya’s 55 years of self-rule are under way at Kinoru stadium in Meru County. President Uhuru Kenyatta, who will lead the Madaraka Day fete, arrived at the stadium at 11.25am, a few minutes after the arrival of First Lady Margaret Kenyatta. The plane carrying the head of state landed at Kaaga Primary School grounds where his motorcade was waiting to ferry him to Kinoru. He was welcomed by his Deputy William Ruto and Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi. Accompanied by Chief of Defence Forces Samson Mwathethe, he later went around the stadium using the ceremonial open vehicle to greet Kenyans packed in the 18, 000-capacity Kinoru stadium.   Before the president’s arrival, opposition leader Raila Odinga had entered the newly renovated stadium to the cheers of the crowd. It was a show of colour, pomp and elegance as guests, who included South Africa Deputy President David Mabuza, made their way to the stadium in style. A majority of the invited dignitaries drove in sleek cars or flew in choppers that were landing at Kaaga primary school. Meru town has been choking with traffic since Thursday due to the influx of people and vehicles. Chief Justice David Maraga, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti, Cabinet secretaries, principal secretaries and a host of governors are also in attendance.   Most county bosses from the neighbouring counties abandoned celebrations in their regions to attend the national fete in Meru. The fete is, for the first time, being held in Meru as part of a tradition started in 2015 where national celebrations were to be held outside the capital Nairobi. In 2017, the event was held in Nyeri County. The celebrations were also held in all the other 46 counties, presided over by county commissioners and governors. In Mombasa, Governor Hassan Joho waived hospital and mortuary fees in all the county hospitals in a move he said was in line peace pact between Mr Odinga and President Kenyatta. He ordered county secretary Francis Thoya to make sure that the order is implemented with immediate effect.   In Nandi, Governor Stephen Sang vowed not to relent in his push for the review of the county boundary with Kisumu. In his speech at Kapsabet stadium, Mr Sang said “historical injustices meted on Nandi people must be solved”. He however promised that no one will be displaced. In Lamu, Governor Fahim Twaha lauded President Kenyatta and Mr Odinga for burying the hatchet. He said his government was also ready to accommodate those he defeated during the August 8 election if they are willing to work with him to move Lamu forward. Mr Twaha also thanked the national government for fighting Al-Shabaab in Boni Forest and ensuring Lamu remains safe.   In Kisumu, Mr Odinga’s and Mr Kenyatta’s handshake breathed new life into the celebrations   that were low-key last year. Political leaders led by Governor Anyang' Nyong'o, deputy Mathews Owili and Nyakach MP Aduma Owuor, among others, graced the occasion at Jomo Kenyatta Sports grounds. The event attracted hundreds of youth unlike the low turnout witnessed  in 2017. During last year’s Mashujaa and Jamhuri Day celebrations, County Commissioner Pauline Dola found herself reading the president’s speech to almost an empty stadium as the region battled security authorities over perceived election rigging. In Vihiga County, the event presided over by Governor Wilber Ottichilo and County Commissioner John Chelimo went on well but there was a low turnout. None of the 38 MCAs and MPs was attending the event Municipal Grounds in Mbale, the county's headquarters, by 12.30pm. By noon, an estimated 100 people were seated and listening to entertainment groups from Vihiga Boys, Chavakali Boys and Mbale Boys. In Baringo, local MPs also kept off the celebrations held at Marigat High School in Baringo South. The event was attended by Governor Stanley Kiptis, County Commissioner Henry Wafula, the county security team and other local leaders. Also in attendance were Mr Mark Kebenei and Mr Shadrack Kiprop who are eyeing the Baringo South parliamentary seat following the death of area MP Grace Kipchoim a month ago.   The duo will be battling out in the Jubilee nominations on June 13 after they were cleared by IEBC on Thursday. In Nyandarua, drama unfolded at Ol Kalou Stadium when a visibly drunken youth attempted to disrupt Governor Francis Kimemia speech. Shouting incoherent words, he staggered towards the dias soon after the governor took to the podium. But county enforcement team led by chiefs grabbed him just before he reached the governor. More drama ensued as Senator Mwangi Githiomi’s personal aide and several of his supporters demanded his release. "You can't arrest him. He has a right to be heard. No, you are not taking him to the police station," shouted the personal aide as a group of young men pushed the security agents aside.   Unbothered, Governor Kimemia continued with his speech as the group led by Githiomi’s aide managed to rescue the youth from the security officers. But signs of heavy rains forced the governor to cut short his speech to allow the county commissioner read the president's speech Reported by Kalume Kazungu, Kazungu Samuel, Tom Matoke, David Muchui, Grace Gitau, Kalume Kazungu, Lucy Mkanyika, Victor Raballa, Waikwa Maina, Derick Luvega and Florah Koech.   Kenya marks 55 years of internal self-rule.