The latest advisory from the Commission for University Education (CUE) to the Cabinet Secretary in charge of education reflects the turmoil within the higher education sector. Among other recommendations, the Commission advises the scrapping of school-based programmes. This will dim the aspirations of many teachers who wish to pursue further education and at the same time kill the cash cow that has been feeding the cash-starved universities. The Commission further  reinforces the moratorium on the establishment of new universities. It also argues that with 73 universities, Kenya, with 48.4 million in 2016, overshot its banks on the number of universities it ought to have. LESSONS The Commission argues that 31 public universities and six public constituent colleges are too many for Kenya. South Africa, with a population of 55.91 million, has 26 universities. Rwanda, with a population of 12 million people, has one public university. The Commission, therefore, calls for the amendment of the Universities Act on the establishment of at least one university in each county. It is time for sober reflection. South Africa, for instance, went through a painful process to reduce the number of universities. We have many lessons to learn from them. If universities should be like a flame that continuously illuminates society, then ours are flickering and dangerously so. That is why the nation has to decisively deal with challenges facing university education. We have to take tough and unpleasant decisions. We have to adopt proactive interventions and not knee-jack reactions as we have witnessed in the recent past. STAGNANT Our solutions and action plans should have a future orientation. Decisions that serve immediate political expedience are not helpful. First, we need structured discourses involving all stakeholders. Far-reaching intercourse of minds will rejuvenate the river of higher education. Commenting on the state of higher education in Africa, a recent issue of The Guardian notes that premier universities on the continent are faced with soaring student numbers against stagnant investment. This has led to overcrowding that is witnessed in libraries and lecture halls. A typical lecture hall on our campuses resembles a market day gathering. In such an environment, the phrase quality education is only a meaningless slogan. We have to invest in quality education to reap from it. Granted, there are a number of public universities which have done well in modernising their infrastructure. But at what cost? They are choked by loans and with dwindling numbers of students, they stand precariously on the precipice. MISMATCH In virtually all our public universities radical transformation of infrastructure is required. The archetypal lecture hall requires an overhaul to meet the requirements of the 21st century. This is why universities need funds to invest in infrastructure that support interactive discourse. Whatever we say, the nation has to rethink the concept of financing university education. The concept of Differentiated Unit Cost (DUC) may not be the panacea to our predicament. We have to rethink university expansion programmes and establish institutions that we have capacity to support. There is a need to fully fund new and young institutions that we establish if we want them to survive. There exists a glaring mismatch between the country’s developmental goals and university programmes. That is why we have to rationalise the number of universities, restructure them and “re-member” them in line with the manpower needs of the nation. SYNERGY The link between academia and industry is a blurred one. Consequently, we continue to witness skills gap. Enduring partnerships between various agencies and universities should address this problem. We need to create synergy between universities and technical and vocational institutions. They should be seen as strategic allies in achieving development agenda and solving existential problems facing our nation. In Kenyan universities research does not dine on the same table with teaching. Research is usually left under the table to feed on crumbs. A paradigm shift is urgently needed so that university staff can re-dedicate their efforts to research. RIGOUR Creating publishing research channels eliminates the practice by staff and students to publish in available “predatory” journals which charge expensively with little attention to rigour. We also need to rethink our management structures to ensure they are serving us. Do we need all these management levels within these institutions or they only serve to sap the meagre resources we have? It is imperative to focus our resources on key strategic areas to eliminate duplication. With support, dons should adopt modern pedagogical practices and make learning more interactive. Adhering to maximum class sizes will support this. POLICY In many instances students are forgotten actors in the education sector. They must be brought to the centre-stage in discussions about higher education. Lastly, pure sciences and social sciences have a role to play in development. And they all need to be supported. Any policy that regards one more highly than the other is an enemy to Kenya’s progress. Prof Kabaji is founding principal, Turkana University College (egarakabaji@gmail.com), while Dr Mbithi is a lecturer at Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT) smbithi@jkuat.ac.ke  