Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa says she will continue backing Deputy President William Ruto’s bid for the presidency, despite ODM threats to punish rebel MPs. Her comment came a day after Minority Whip Junet Mohamed (Suna East) expressed ODM’s intention to axe the MP, a former confidant of party leader Raila Odinga at the coast, from the powerful Parliamentary Service Commission (PSC). Speaking to journalists in Malindi, the legislator said she will not be intimidated in-to changing her political stand. “We will not accept to be intimidated. Just like I have said, I do not have any row with ODM or party leader, but my stand to support Mr Ruto to be president in 2022 will not change. This is my decision,” she said. NO PROBLEM Ms Jumwa said she has no problem with ODM fielding a presidential candidate in 2022, but she will support Mr Ruto. “I do not see any problem with that, and that is not an issue to create a conflict with ODM,” she added. Ms Jumwa said she is treating media reports on the party intentions to remove her from the lucrative position as “rumours”, adding: “I have not received any official report from the National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi seeking my removal.” She said she had not committed any offence but was “simply following in the footsteps of Raila Odinga” and had no quarrel with the party, its leaders or other members. ODM “The PSC position was not a favour but a right for Coast people after delivering for the party during last year’s General Election,” she said. “We are part and parcel of ODM and everyone knows how much we contributed to ODM during the last election. In fact, we were given very few positions in the ODM party,” she said. She said she was “merely supporting the spirit of the handshake”, which also includes the “Big Four” agenda of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Mr Ruto. In a letter to the National Assembly Speaker, the Suna East MP sought guidance on how to remove Ms Jumwa from the PSC post. “I seek guidance on how to remove and hence replace a commissioner of the PSC … your urgent consideration of this matter will be highly appreciated,” it reads. Ten MPs have been attending Mr Ruto’s events at the coast, with some declaring support for his presidential ambition, to ODM’s annoyance.  