By the end of this financial year, Kenya will have lost Sh700 billion to corruption. Just think what that amount can do. If we are to make any headway as a country, we need a paradigm shift in the war against corruption. We need to change how we look at it and how we fight it. I have just finished reading a book called Boundaries by Dr Henry Cloud and Dr John Townsend, in which they offer insights on boundaries and their importance in our lives. I believe that if we apply the principles outlined in this book in the war against corruption, we will make progressive and effective strides. BOUNDARIES To win this war, we must begin by defining and drawing clear boundaries on what is personal or private and what is public property. By defining these boundaries, we can know what we are responsible “for” and what we are responsible “to”. In other words, what is ours and what is not. The grand theft of public funds continues unhindered because we, as faithful taxpayers, have not drawn clear boundaries when it comes to our money. We have not taken full ownership and responsibility when it comes to our money. CONSEQUENCES Neither have we properly communicated to our leaders that taxpayers’ money is taxpayers’ money and that those in positions of authority are supposed to use it to build our economy, not enrich themselves. We have not told them that if they cross certain boundaries with our money, there will be consequences. That is why they spend our hard-earned money as they please. When people cross boundaries, there must be consequences. The same has to apply when it comes to our leaders and financial stewards. PROSECUTION While the penalties for corruption are fines, imprisonment and forfeiture of the stolen assets, we do not enforce them. If we valued our money and ourselves, our words would match our actions and the culprits would be brought to book swiftly. Letting the culprits suffer the consequences of their actions will make people know that we take corruption offences seriously and that we have respect for ourselves as a taxpaying nation. But since the corrupt do not suffer the consequences of crossing the laid-out boundaries, no one takes these crimes seriously. Eventually the boundaries lose meaning. CRUCIALHowever, one has to ask, why does corruption thrive? Is it not because in our own lives we have not put up boundaries that govern us? Bribery is normal, saying no is unconventional. We hardly discipline our children; we are afraid of “offending” others; we litter and jump queues. This lack of respect for such boundaries eventually reflects our daily lives as a nation. And because we do not understand the power and value of boundaries, when it comes to setting them between ourselves and our money, ourselves and our leaders, we fail. ELECTIONSSetting up boundaries is tough work. It requires a deep evaluation of ourselves and deep-seated convictions; the courage to live by these convictions and a community to support and encourage us on when things are thick. And it all begins with the power of one; one person deciding enough is enough and beginning to draw the line. Every five years, we get an opportunity to draw new boundaries with our government. This opportunity comes in the form of a vote, which is unfortunately influenced by our values and convictions. If we work on these, we will be able to declare an all-out war on corruption and change our leadership choices. CULPRITSTruthfully speaking, there is no difference between those who have stolen and ourselves. Weren’t we the ones who voted for them? We must also begin to say “no” to bribery in our own lives, and be unafraid to report those involved. We must keep tabs on government expenditure, holding our leaders to account and ensuring jail terms for those found guilty. This will teach offenders that we, as a nation, are committed to live according to the values we have developed and hold dear. So, yes we must be angry as taxpayers, demanding accountability and justice. Nevertheless, our anger needs to transcend beyond protests, tweets, hashtags and locker-room talk. We need to know what we want and take responsibility for it so that when someone comes asking us to board the wrong bus, we will be confident enough to say “we are not boarding!” Ms Wanjohi is the founder of Mazingira Safi Initiative. puritywanjohi@msi.or.ke.  