Kenyans urged to consume more honey and ease sugar consumption Stakeholders in the honey industry have urged Kenyans to promote apiculture. Apicultural Platform of Kenya chairman Stephen Kagio asked Kenyans to stop their dependence on sugar. “If consumers embrace honey, it would motivate beekeepers who would be assured of a market,” he said. He urged the government and private firms to invest in apiculture. “Even cane farmers can still practise apiculture,” he said. According to the Agriculture Ministry, three quarters of Kenya is suitable for apiculture. However, only 25 per cent of this potential is being exploited, according to Robin Mbae, the Deputy Director of Livestock Production in charge of Apiculture and Climate Change. “While the country has the potential of producing more than 100 tonnes of honey every year, it remains a net importer,” he said. Mbae challenged counties with high honey producing potential to promote the industry. -Rachel Kibui **** Farmers in Nyanza lose hundreds of livestock to blackwater disease. Farmers in Nyanza have lost hundreds of animals to the blackwater disease. James Otieno from Lambwe, Homa Bay County, said despite informing the livestock department of the outbreak, officials took no action. Mary Odera, another resident, said the oubreak began in May. “If the county government does not take action, we will lose more cattle. We skin the carcases before burying them,” she said. The most affected areas in are Dhiwa, Lambwe and Gwasi. Agriculture executive Juma Aguko said the disease is spreading because most animals were not vaccinated on time. “We are waiting for the release of funds to buy vaccines. The disease most likely originated in Kisumu,” he said. In Migori, Agriculture executive Valentine Ogongo said the disease has been contained in most parts of the county. “We acted as soon as the outbreak was reported and vaccinated animals on the Transmara border,” he said. -Elizabeth Ojina **** Ministry, NGO develop sms to help farmers fight armyworm A free SMS has been launched to help farmers cope with the fall armyworm threat. The platform was developed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Precision Agriculture for Development, an NGO. PAD country director Emmanuel Bakirdjian said all a farmer needs to do is send an SMS with the word “Shamba” or “Farm” 40130. Farmers will get information on how to detect and manage the worm. The service also offers a system that helps them assess the level of infestation in their farms. To do this, one can walk into the shamba and start an SMS survey by sending the word “Angalia” or “Check” to 40130. The system will then calculate the percentage of infestation and based on the result, give advice on what actions the farmer can take to control the pest. -Peter Kamau   Currently, the bees sector is manned by different departments depending on their different responsibilities.