Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga on Wednesday sent over 50 county staff packing, allegedly for being involved in corruption. The affected staff are in the Department of Finance and Planning. They were sent on compulsory leave over what he termed efforts to sanitise the department while weeding out elements of corruption and inefficiency. Mr Rasanga said the move was in line with the commitment he made during last year’s election campaigns, where he promised to take steps towards greater efficiency in county government operations during his second term. OVERHAUL He said the move would lead to complete vetting and reorganisation of all staff before they are accepted back. “While the staff sent on leave are not guilty until proved otherwise, the period of their absence will afford my government an opportunity to scrutinise the activities of each directorate and recommend measures for improved efficiency and service delivery,” said Mr Rasanga in a statement sent to newsrooms. The governor is set to overhaul the whole department. “Those found culpable in poor and inefficient service will see a wide range of appropriate actions taken immediately,” he said. He said that the purge will extend to all departments to weed out corrupt officials. UNITY The governor said his administration was committed to the war against graft and to the Building Bridges Initiative recently agreed upon by Mr Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta. County staff in the roads department could be next in line. Last Friday, during Madaraka Day celebrations, Mr Rasanga told the county secretary to ensure all workers in both Roads and Finance departments are sent home before the end of this week. He told the executive member in charge of Roads, Mr Bernard Mboha, to finish working on a report on corruption in the department and forward it to his desk for further action. He vowed to sack all corrupt workers in the two departments, which he claimed were riddled with graft. The governor said senior officials from the two departments were awarding contracts to inept cronies.  