The Kehancha Police Station boss has been ordered to produce, dead or alive, a suspect who mysteriously went missing from the cells a year ago. Mr Daniel Nyamohanga had been arrested on January 12, 2017 in Kehancha, Migori County and was accused of robbery with violence. However, he went missing days after his arrest, leaving the suspect’s family seeking answers about his whereabouts. His wife Rose Nyamohanga had said he was denied access to her husband. After several months, she was informed by the police officers that her husband is not at the station, but they could not say where he had gone to. The family decided to go to court. Delivering his ruling, Migori High Court Judge Antony Murimi ordered that the suspect be presented in court on or before the end of June 4. Justice Murimi further said that the testimony given by the Kehancha Police Station boss, claiming that the suspect was released from prison on January 16, 2018, after the robbery with violence charges levelled against him could not be proved, was not factual. “It cannot be proved that the suspect was released as alleged by the police officer,” said the judge. The judge also noted that a lot of information in the Occurrence Book had been altered presumably to exonerate the police officer on duty at the time of Mr Nyamohanga’s disappearance. According to him, the testimonies given by the police boss and officers who were on duty when the suspect was brought to the police station and that of the Independent Policing Oversight Authority (IPOA) were conflicting. Speaking to Nation after the ruling, Ms Nyamohanga said the family has gone through a lot of agony seeking for justice for their kin. She said she wants to know what happened to her husband. “All I want to know is what happened to my husband. The family has gone through a lot of trouble and stress seeking justice. The police should tell us where my husband is. Even if he is dead, we need closure,” said Ms Nyamohanga. She added that she hopes justice will be served and that they will find her husband “We hope that the police will abide by the court order,” said Ms Nyamohanga.  