Upcoming singer Timeless Noel was the toast of this year’s Groove Awards, scooping five awards, including the coveted Song of the Year for the hit tune Odi Dance”. The singer was feted at the star-studded event which took place last Sunday at the Safaricom Stadium, Kasarani. He also walked away with the Dance of the Year, Most Downloaded Skiza Tune, Hype Man of the Year and Collabo of the Year awards. The show attracted the glitterati in the gospel music industry. Controversial singer Willy Paul, often bullied online for what people say are shallow lyrics, made his comeback in the awards this year after missing out on the last two editions, winning Music Video of The Year for his song ‘Jigi Jigi’. However, to the audience’s surprise, the singer declined the award, instead handing it over to upcoming artiste Weezdom, who was nominated in the same category. LIFETIME AWARD In his acceptance speech, Willy Paul said he believed Weezdom deserved the award more than he did as he had worked very hard and produced a better video. Other big winners of the night included the late Congolese songbird Angela Chibalonza, who was posthumously celebrated with the Lifetime Award for her outstanding contribution to the gospel music industry. ‘Kuna dawa’ hit maker Esther Wahome, received the award on behalf of Chibalonza’s family who did not attend the event. Guardian Angel of the sensational ‘Nadeka’ hit bagged the Artist of the Year Award, as NTV’s Crossover show hosts won the Media Personality of the Year Award. In his acceptance speech, Guardian Angel called upon gospel artistes to produce more music that glorify God. The idea behind 'Nadeka' came to him at his lowest moment and it became the song that got him the recognition that he had so yearned for years, he reminisced. TOP PRODUCERS Speaking at the event, Groove Awards founder Kevin Mulei said this year’s event - the 13th edition - was more inclusive and attracted a wider range of stars than previous ones. “We made a myriad of changes in how we have run the awards previously for more public inclusion. We are so happy that the changes were received very well both by the artists and the public. This is the biggest production in Kenya and by far Africa, involving artistes, dancers, DJs and top producers,” he said. “We are very grateful for the opportunity to shape youth culture positively and are very proud of the work the Gospel artistes continue to put in to advance Kingdom business. We are even more proud today to be able to celebrate, alike, those that took home an award and those that did not,” he added. BIGGEST HITS Among the highlights of the ceremony were throwback gospel show-stopping performances by Mercy Masika, Joyce Omondi, Mercy Wairegi, Pitson and Rebecca Soki who staged some of Kenya's biggest hits supported by the Groove Band. Winners in each category were selected based on number of votes by the public, a two-week long process that started soon after the Groove Nominations Night earlier in the month. A winner’s concert is slated on July 8, 2018 at the Embu Municipal Council Stadium and will see all winners celebrate their victory with their fans.  