Vibgyor, in a pursuit to bring colourful diversity to our world of theatre and film, has teamed up with Wacha Story Kenya to present a musical that is based on a rather sensitive issue of religious and faith conflict between two communities in India. Aptly titled A Shaft of Sunlight – The Musical, it is all set to be staged at the Oshwal Junior High Auditorium initially for four performances on Saturday June 9 and Sunday June 10. AShaft of Sunlight is written by the internationally acclaimed Bollywood writer Abhijat Joshi. The same one who has co-authored some of the great Indian blockbuster movies like Lage Raho Munnabhai, 3 Idiots, and PK. Joshi’s “sunlight” for our stage brings into focus an engaging, thought provoking yet entertaining tale of love, respect and friendship in the shadow of conflicting religious beliefs. It is an absorbing story of humans disgruntled and divided across the lines of faith and resorting to mayhem. The agony of complex love-hate tensions and conflicting faiths finds peace respect and tranquility in the warmth of friendship and in the harmony of music. The music I understand is selected from soulful melodies of Bollywood songs and presented live on stage by a band of very talented young Kenyan musicians and singers. Kunjan Dholakia, the artistic and creative man at the helm of this innovative theatrical cum musical offering, explains that the play features a truly young, talented and passionate cast of Kenyan performers from all age groups – some as young as 10. In the pre-show press release there are names like Nilofer Abji and Ali Khan – the popular and articulate radio presenters and loveable stage personalities together with an array of talent that is certain to win the hearts of our most discerning audience. To experience the glory of our Kenyan talent in the musical, theatre goers and lovers of Bollywood melodies, from the golden era of the times when melody reigned as queen, must visit Toyworld at ABC Place, Sarit Centre or Village Market for advance booking or call 0734955888 for further information. And finally, there is an extraordinary concert in store this month. Ranee Produtions has announced that the legendary Ustad Rahat Fathe Ali Khan is scheduled to return to our stage on Saturday, June 23. The maestro will perform at Diamond Plaza. More details about this next Sunday.    Email: qureshi@simbatech.biz    It was akin to celestial beings from their heavenly abode to bless their earthly devotees at Oshwal Centre Auditorium