Embattled Kenyan assistant referee Aden Marwa seems to have elected to remain silent despite severe bribery allegations hovering around him. This is even as two stakeholders implicated alongside him separately owned up and apologised. Marwa, 41, was alongside Gambian referee Ebrimma Jallow and Ghana Football Association president Kwesi Nyantakyi caught on tape receiving money from an undercover journalist in an expose aired by BBC on Wednesday. Marwa and Jallow were separately captured pocketing ‘gifts’ amounting to $600 (Sh60,000) and $500 (Sh50,000) respectively, in dollar bills. Nyantakyi meanwhile, received a whopping $65000 (Sh6,500,000) meant for 'shopping'. These three officials are bound by football’s ethics code which prohibits them from receiving cash gifts. “I finally apologise to the general public for my act of gross misconduct causing me a disruption to a sport I cherish. I wish to announce that I have excused myself and step aside from all refereeing matters pending completion of the investigation,” said Jallow. “After a meeting of the Executive Committee of the Association this (Friday) afternoon, I decided to resign as President of the Ghana Football Association,” Nyantakyi also announced. “In the said report, I committed a series of errors and indiscretion. I gravely associated the highest office of the land – the presidency – with private discussions I had with ‘scammers’. I hereby apologise reservedly to the father of the Nation H.E Nana Akufo, H.E the Vice President, Dr. Mahamadu Bawumia, for indiscretion in associating them with the private conversation on the video.” The closest Marwa has come to share his side of the story is through his relatives who recently addressed the media. “I believe these are mere allegations and the Ghanaian journalist who approached him was on a malicious mission,” said Marwa’s brother Julius Range. The Kuria Council of Elders have also described both the BBC expose and Ghanaian journalist Anas Aremayaw as “malicious.” Marwa was among the 63 assistant referees set to officiate at the upcoming world football event in Russia.   Marwa was among the 63 assistant referees set to officiate in Russia.