After months of delay, Infinix Mobility on Thursday morning launched their latest device HOT S3 in the Kenyan market and announced that it will only be exclusively available at Safaricom outlets. The all-new Infinix Hot S3 features a 20-megapixel sensor selfie camera that comes equipped with a dual soft light LED flash. It is also the first phone from Infinix to offer a Full View display. It has the efficient Qualcomm snapdragon as its core processor, giving it better capacity for heavy graphics and will use the Android 8.0 (Oreo) operating system. The key target markets are the emerging markets in Africa, Middle East, South America and Asia regions, with its main target group being young people between 18 and 25 years.   Speaking to Nation Transsion Holding Chief Business Development Officer Livingstone Migwi ‎was happy that they finally got to launch the device in Kenya. “Kenya is an extremely significant market for Infinix and HOT S3 and it is great that we have partnered with Safaricom for the fourth year running to bring this device in the market.” A NOTCH HIGHER “The Infinix Hot S3 combines the best-in-class display with aggressive specs in the mid-range phone segment. This time, they have taken it a notch higher with higher screen resolution and one of the finest selfie cameras in this price range,” said Infinix brand manager Mr Zhang. According to Zhang the smartphone is meant for the young and tech savvy people, who want to share their lives and style with the world. They will get the most of everything to share their stories. HOT S3 comes with a 5.7” 18:9 Infinity screen, a 20MP SONY sensor selfie camera and 13MP rear camera adopting a PDAF 80-degree wide angle, a Qualcomm snapdragon processor, Face Unlock capability, a 4000mAh battery capacity and a youthful and fashionable body, it’s also lighter with a good metal texture. There is also the Face Unlock feature that can be unlocked at a glance. The Kenya unveil took place at the Safaricom I&M and will retail at a price of Sh18,999. It is available in Topaz Blue, Sandstone Black and Blush Gold.   When we first wrote about Oppo F7, we highlighted the phone’s famed front camera.