More than 8,000 secondary school heads are set to converge in Mombasa for their annual conference amid rising cases of sexual harassment of students. The principals will meet at the Wild Waters Centre in Mombasa during the 43rd Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association (Kessha) annual national conference from Sunday to Friday. The meeting comes as police are investigating circumstances under which a Form Two student at Moi Girls School, Nairobi, was raped last week. This week, Maasai Girls School in Narok was also closed indefinitely after more than 700 students walked out to protest over alleged sexual harassment by a male teacher. Speaking to the Saturday Nation on phone, the Kenya Secondary School Head Teachers Association chairman Indimuli Kahi warned teachers and principals against preying on their students. But Mr Kahi cautioned Kenyans against blanket condemnation of teachers. “Some of these students can decide to frame a teacher or a principal for one reason or [another]. When such reports are made, let us allow investigations to be concluded,” he said. THEME The theme of this year’s conference is, Re-directing the Education Sector in Kenya. On Monday, Kessha will conduct teacher recognition presentations which will be coordinated by the director of teacher management at the Teachers Service Commission Ms Mary Rotich. On Tuesday, Deputy President William Ruto and Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed are expected to officially open the conference. “Different players in the sector will issue their remarks including the chairperson of TSC, Early Learning and Basic Education Principal Secretary Belio Kipsang,” Mr Indimuli said. The thorny issue of collective bargaining agreement will be handled by TSC director of human resources Ms Josephine Maundu while Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana will talk on the impact of devolution on the education sector. Other speakers will include TSC chief executive Nancy Macharia, TSC chairperson Lydia Nzomo, and Kenya National Examinations Council chief executive Mercy Karogo.   700 Maasai Girls High learners claim their teacher attempted to defile one of them.