Thirteen-time champions AFC Leopards continued with their resurgence beating Chemelil Sugar 2-0 in a SportPesa Premier League match at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos on Saturday. The matches between Mathare United and Vihiga United, and Zoo Kericho and Sony Sugar Kericho United ended in identical 1-1 draws at Camp Toyoyo grounds in Nairobi and Kericho Green Stadium in Kericho respectively. Leopards registered their second win on the trot thanks to a brace from Ezekiel Odera as their coach Argentine Rodolfo Zapata appeared to be getting his winning system in place. At Camp Toyoyo, Mathare United coach Francis Kimanzi returned to the touchline after missing his team’s last two games during which he was engaged with the national team. Ahmed Ahmad scored in the sixth minute of the match, but Dennis Wafula managed to draw level for Vihiga United, thereby derailing the slum boys’ chances of closing the gap that stands between them and table leaders Gor Mahia. Kimanzi made two changes to his first 11, with Edward Seda returning to the first team to start in the middle of the pack alongside Ahmad and Roy Okal. Johnstone Omurwa stood at the heart of defence in partnership with match day Samuel Olwande, as Mike Simiyu and Martin Ongori started in the full back positions. Vihiga had Morvine Otinya leading the attack, veteran Charles Okwemba marshalling the midfield and Barnabas Tiema starting in between the posts. Mathare’s Ahmad engaged in a nice exchange with veteran Clifford Alwanga six minutes into the game before he burst into the box to send a palm-stinging shot past Vihiga goalkeeper Tiema. The slum boys won a penalty four minutes later after Bernard Ochieng handled the ball inside the box, but Alwanga's resultant spot kick was punched out by Tiema much to the fans' disappointment. Both teams recorded a series of missed chances in the remainder of the first half, although Mathare custodian Robert Mboya was called to action on more occasions. The hosts seemed to have taken their foot off the gas in the second half and four minutes after the breather, they conceded. A misunderstanding between Mboya and Olwande saw Dennis Wafula sneak the ball in via the near post in the 49th minute as debutants Vihiga secured a point. "I like the fighting spirit of the boys. Despite conceding early they maintained focus and got a goal in the second half,” said new Vihiga assistant coach Mike Mururi. Results: AFC Leopards 2-0 Chemelil Sugar (Machakos Stadium, 3pm) Mathare United 1-1 Vihiga United (Camp Toyoyo, 3pm) Zoo Kericho 1-1 Sony Sugar Kericho (Green Stadium, 3pm)  