Thousands of residents and guests thronged Kinoru Stadium in Meru for the Madaraka Day fete, overwhelming organisers and security officials. The 18,000-seater filled to capacity and to ease pressure on the gates, residents were allowed to sit in the open field where performances normally take place. Each member of the crowd also received a copy of the 20,000 Daily Nation papers distributed for free at the event courtesy of the county government. At least 15 people were injured when a tree fell on dozens of residents perched on it as they followed the celebrations. Hundreds of enthusiastic Kenyans were turned away as early as 8am due to the high turnout. DISCHARGEDMs Flora Mutethi, a nurse in-charge of operations at the emergency centre, said the victims were not seriously injured and were rushed to Meru General Hospital where they were treated and discharged. “They were told to climbdown from the tree but they refused. We could not help the situation because they had been warned that the tree could not support the weight,” she said. Those who were turned away said they were disappointed that they travelled from their homes yet they could not access the stadium. “I have been waiting for this day and I arrived here at 6am but I have not been able to enter. I would rather have watched it from home,” Francis Kirimi, who had brought his family along, said. BUSINESSEarlier in the morning, there was a stampede as residents tried to access the venue after they were denied entry. A spot check revealed that the town was at a standstill. The gates of the stadium were opened at 4am and three hours later, residents packed the stadium to the brim. Traffic was restricted within about a kilometre radius to the stadium, forcing residents to walk. Businesses in the hospitality sector in Meru County recorded huge profits following the celebrations, with owners saying they had raked in huge profits. Guest house owners hiked accommodation rates despite a warning form the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Normally, the rates for guest rooms range between Sh700 and Sh1,000 bob.   President Kenyatta to address the nation from Kinoru stadium in Meru.