The National Health Service marks its 70th birthday this month but with little to celebrate. Hailed at its birth as “the envy of the world,” the service now lags behind other countries in the treatment of several serious conditions. Just weeks ago a report found that more than 450 patients died after being given powerful pain-killers when they did not need them at Gosport War Memorial Hospital. An independent panel said that taking into account missing records, a further 200 patients, mostly elderly, may have died. It said there was a widespread disregard for human life at the hospital between 1989 and 2000. DANGEROUS Supporters of the NHS argue that the provision of free medical treatment for all has been hampered by lack of funds from government. There are also claims that whistle-blowers are treated harshly if they raise alarms about dangerous situations or practices. For instance, a group of nurses highlighted concerns about Gosport as far back as 1988 but were silenced by managers. “We run a health system with very scarce resources in terms of staff and equipment and achieve poor outcomes in some vital areas such as cancer survival,” said Nigel Edwards, chief executive of the Nuffield Trust think tank. UNDERSTAFFED An analysis prepared for the BBC found that the NHS performed worse than average on eight of the 12 most common causes of death: breast, colorectal, lung and pancreatic cancers, other lung diseases, respiratory infections such as pneumonia, heart attacks and strokes. BBC reporter Nick Robinson, himself a lung cancer survivor, said, “In nine out of ten cancers, our survival rates are well below the European average. This means that tens of thousands of people with cancer here survive for fewer years than if they lived in France, Germany or the Netherlands.” The government recently announced increased funding for the NHS but experts say it still falls short of what is needed with the result that wards are understaffed, nurses overworked, waiting lists lengthened and operations cancelled. * * * The story as it enfolded at Winchester Crown Court sounded more like a crime novel than real life. But murder was at the heart of it. Emile Cilliers, 38, a South African Afrikaner and a PT sergeant in the British army, wanted to get rid of his wife, Victoria, 41. He had his eyes on her insurance money, expected to amount to £120,000, and he wanted to start a new life with another woman. First, the court was told, he caused a gas leak at their home by loosening a valve fitting in the kitchen cupboard. This did not work, so he turned to his wife’s passion, parachuting. Mrs Cilliers was scheduled to make a jump at Netheravon airfield in Wiltshire and her husband, an experienced parachute packer, made sure he prepared her chute. Unseen, he cut the strings on both her main and reserve parachutes. CALLOUSNESS His wife dropped like a stone, four thousand feet (1,100 metres) into a recently ploughed field. Miraculously she survived, partly due to her light weight and because of the soft nature of the ground. Justice Sweeney said although Victoria Cilliers recovered physically, she sustained long-lasting psychological damage. He described Cilliers as a man of “quite exceptional callousness” and his act as “offending of extreme gravity.” For attempted murder, Cilliers was given a life sentence and ordered to serve 18 years before being considered for parole. He will then be 56. * * * As I write this, the temperature in London is 27C, and in Nairobi it is 19C. Britain has been enjoying heatwave conditions, with the mercury reaching 30C in parts of the capital. Network Rail introduced speed restrictions as a precaution against rails buckling in the heat and some schools cancelled sports and games. High levels of pollen kept some hay fever sufferers indoors and medical experts warned that with raised UV levels, sunbathing should be kept to a minimum. As for water bathing, that should be treated with caution, too, medics said. The shock caused to a hot body plunging into cold water is dangerous and at least one man was found dead in a lake in southern England. * * * A gorilla walked into a bar, ordered a scotch on the rocks and tendered a £10 note. Thinking the gorilla would not know about prices, the bartender gave 15 pence change. “We don’t get many gorillas in here,” he said. Replied the gorilla, “At £9.85 for a whisky, I’m not surprised.” Julius Caesar walked into a bar and ordered a Martinus. “Don’t you mean a Martini?” the barman asked. “If I wanted a double I would ask for one,” the emperor said. A drunk walked into a bar and said, “Ouch!” Gerryo69@hotmail.com  