President Uhuru Kenyatta on Saturday extended his call for unity by asking Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi and East African Community Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya to shake hands. Speaking at Nchuui Primary School in Tigania East during the homecoming ceremony of Mr Munya, President Kenyatta said politicking is over therefore leaders should be focused on serving the people. "I want these two leaders to come forward and stop disturbing me. They should shake hands and work for the people of Meru because there is no development that can take place when people are fighting," Mr Kenyatta said. POLITICS Governor Murungi and Mr Munya were arch-rivals during last year’s General Election, which has polarized residents of Tigania, Igembe and Imenti sub-counties. Mr Munya was seeking re-election. "This rivalry of the Tigania, Igembe and Imenti should stop. It is useless to continue fighting. What we want to see is the Ameru people getting development. We want them to work together for this to be possible," the President noted. Earlier, the two political nemeses were hesitant after Igembe North MP Maore Maoka urged them to show unity in public. Governor Murungi said there are no hard feelings between him and Mr Munya. "I have attended Mr Munya’s homecoming ceremony because the President brought us together. "I want to do tangible work for the people of Meru. In 2022, you will vote whoever you want for governor. I come with a clean heart," he said. TITLE DEEDS Mr Munya also said he would support Mr Kiraitu in delivering his duties. Further, Mr Kenyatta said that he would intensify the war on corruption and urged Kenyans not to forget the initiatives his administration has already completed, such as facilitating 100 per cent primary to secondary school transition rate, boosting connection to electricity and promoting access to better medical care. On land ownership, he said 60,000 title deeds have been given out to Meru residents. He also roped in the elderly in the region, indicating that 40,000 will receive Sh4,000 monthly stipend through the National Safety Net programme. DAMS Deputy President William Ruto said the government would start construction of three dams in Meru, allocated Sh1.2 billion to Meru town water and sewerage project and Sh1.5 billion towards connecting 25,000 residents to the national power grid. Other leaders in attendance were Cabinet secretaries Simon Chelugui (Water), Ukur Yatani (Labour) and Faridah Karoney (Lands); Governors Mike Sonko (Nairobi), Muthomi Njuki (Tharaka-Nithi) and Ndiritu Muriithi (Laikipia); Senators Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet) and Okong’o Omogeni (Nyamira); and Kajiado Central MP Elijah Memusi. They equally agitated for peace.   President says fresh vetting and the polygraph tests will weed out corrupt State officials.