Teachers who are not of the same gender as the learners will no longer be allowed to stay together in an enclosed office. And learners will no longer be sent home during school time "for whatever reason" if parents have not been informed. These are among new measures formulated to curb sex abuse in learning institutions. Speaking at the official opening of the annual Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association (Kepssa) forum at Wild Waters Centre, Mombasa, on Wednesday Deputy President William Ruto warned principals against covering up for their colleagues who sexually abuse minors. He said the government would equip learning institutions with enough infrastructure to ensure safety and security of learners. SEXUAL ABUSE “Students must be safe from abuse. Sexual abuse, in particular, must be prevented and severely punished. As leaders, you must show zero tolerance by exposing and dealing with such cases,” the DP said. He told the principals to expose all cases of sexual abuse. “You must lead through strong values. Boards of management will now be expected to institute administrative structures that offer students, teachers and parents their rights, in accordance with the Basic Protection Act. You are responsible for protecting minors in learning institutions,” the DP said. Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed said the vice has reached a critical stage and called for concerted mechanisms to address it. She urged the principals to name all suspected defilers and termed recent insecurity incidents in learning institutions as alarming. "Although previously we have had security breaches in schools, the trend in second term is worrying," she said. RAPE “We need your help. Give us support to deal with this issue. It can’t be true that those you have been working with tell me that they treat sex abuse cases every day. We can’t allow our children to grow up thinking it is okay to be abused and then becoming abusers in future,” the CS said. Her calls come as police investigate circumstances under which a Form Two student at Moi Girls School, Nairobi, was raped by an unknown man. Recently, Maasai Girls' School in Narok was closed indefinitely after protests over sexual harassment. More than 700 girls at the school walked out, alleging sexual harassment by a male teacher. Teachers Service Commission (TSC) chairperson Lydia Nzomo highlighted the new measures to curb sexual violence in schools. Meanwhile, TSC announced that implementation of the 2017-2021 collective bargaining agreement with teaching unions was underway. HOLISTIC DEVELOPMENT “Peace is conducive to quality teaching and learning. In 2015, we promised that identification of institutions administrators would be done competitively. This has been institutionalised. Principals are in charge of holistic development of children,” Dr Nzomo said. Dr Nzomo said teachers are no longer allowed to send students home during school time without informing their parents. “A lot happens during the time learners are on their way home. Give us information about molestation in schools and we will take action. Heads of institutions must protect learners. Schools should be places of safety,” said Dr Nzomo.   He says the move will cultivate a culture of greater diversity and foster national unity.