Governors and county commissioners yesterday called for unity and improved security during Madaraka Day celebrations in their regions. In the Rift Valley, Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui joined other national leaders in declaring their support for the government’s war against corruption. SECURITY In Nyandarua and Laikipia counties the call for unity and respect dominated celebrations. Leaders also used the occasion to condemn banditry and cattle rustling and asked the national government to beef up security. Governors in the North Rift used the event to push for residents’ support for their agenda almost a year after assuming office in August last year. Nandi Governor Stephen Sang said he would not relent in his pursuit for a review of the county’s boundary with Kisumu, adding that it was one way to solve historical injustices. In West Pokot, county commissioner Okello Apollo warned rival political groups against incitement. Elsewhere, Governor Joseph ole Lenku of Kajiado asked county officials to work with security agencies in enforcing the ban on logging. In Baringo, Governor Stanley Kiptis said the persistent delay in disbursement of funds from the Treasury hindered implementation of county programmes. And Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati extended an olive branch to Sirisia MP John Waluke who has publicly declared that he seeks to unseat him during the 2022  poll. In Nairobi County, Embakasi Central MP Benjamin Mwangi asked the county government to ensure hospitals are stocked with enough drugs. At the Coast, governors warned against divisive politics and called for a solution to historical land injustices. In Makueni, Governor Kivutha Kibwana and Kaiti MP Joshua Kimilu urged a  14-member peace task force to seek solutions on how to heal the country. None of the top county leaders in Wajir and Mandera  turned up for the event except governors. In Nyeri, Mau Mau veterans received a free medical insurance cover provided by the county government.   We must, with a sense of great urgency, destroy and eliminate corruption in our country.