The high altitude Nyahururu Sports Club course, one of the best nine hole courses in the country, will be the venue for the Nation Classic Golf Series this weekend. This is the first time the Nation Classic golf series which has been running since 1985, will be returning to Nyahururu since 2015. Since 2016, the Nation Media Group has supported the series in partnership with various corporate organizations to support the development of the game of golf in the country. Joining the Nation Media Group specifically for this weekend’s tournament, which comes less than two months after the first leg at Nakuru, will be the Panari Group of Hotels. Like Nation, Panari, is not fairly new in Nyahururu having been staging golf events there since the launch and official opening of its 100-room Panari Nyahururu Resort next to the Thomson Falls. Fresh from their annual event over the Madaraka Day weekend, Panari has topped up a number of prizes in this weekend’s tournament which has attracted a field of 143 golfers. The player are drawn from as far away as Nanyuki, Nyeri, Njoro, Nakuru, and in Nairobi. “We are most delighted to team up with the Nation for this event and particularly because of the fact that it is taking place in Nyahururu, which for us, is like home’’ said Panari Group managing director Patrick Marekia. During the Panari golf event, Nyahururu’s lady captain Susan Hiuko beat off a strong opposition from some of the club’s top golfers such as the veteran Robert Kimemia and Nyeri’s Anthony Munene, to claim the overall title with an excellent score of 40 points. Hiuko, who also featured in the prize list of the first event at Nakuru, has been practising almost every day for this weekends event and depending on the current condition of the course, she could easily surprise the field again this weekend. Also eyeing the top prize will be former captains Simon Ngugi, Musa Koskei, Moses Karuga, James Kimani Kabugi, Gabriel Wanguhu and Boniface Waikwa. Because of the big field and Nyahururu being a nine-hole course, teeing off is set for 7am. But besides Saturday’s golf event, the Nation Media Group staff from Nairobi, Nyeri and Nakuru will Friday afternoon donate text books to Talitha Kum Children’s Home in Nyahururu within Nyahururu town. Talitha Kum Hands To Serve, is a home that provides community care to HIV positive and destitute children. After two successful events at Ruiru and Limuru Country Clubs, the hunt for slots in the 2018 KCB Karen Masters Pro-Am shifts to Eldoret Golf Club.  