Harry Truman was President of the United States during the Second World War. He was visiting a military base in Europe. In those days, things were much simpler, even for an American president. After a staff meeting, he was taken back to his quarters on the base. He was planning to take a plane back to Washington the next day. The driver said, “Sir, if you’re looking for some fun, I know where we can find some ladies willing to entertain us for the night.” Truman answered: “Look son, I’ve been faithful to my wife for 40 years. I’m not about to start cheating on her now.” The message was one part polite and two parts cold shower, as if the president had said, “Better if you had never asked.” Another story comes to mind along the same lines, except this one happened to a friend of mine, many years ago, also back in the United States. At the time, he was a manager in a big company, on a business trip far from home. After the meeting was over, he went for a beer with one of the men who worked for the same company. The colleague suggested something along the same lines as that mentioned by Truman’s driver. My friend replied, “Not interested in that sort of thing. I really love my wife. We’ve been married for many years.” The other guy laughed: “You must be kidding. Are you trying to tell me that, in all those years, you’ve never cheated on your wife? Not even once?” My friend insisted: “Not even once.” The other guy said, “That’s amazing. I wish I had what you have.” Between partners Some people will tell you there’s only one way to feel free. They’re convinced they need to run around, hopping from one partner to another. They think that makes them free. Sooner or later, they meet someone like my friend — or like President Truman — and they realise that running around doesn’t make you free. It makes you lonely. It makes you feel empty inside. It makes you long for something better. If you’re one of those who can say: “Not even once”, then you are truly blessed. This is exactly what Jesus had in mind when he said, during the Sermon on the Mount: “Blessed are the pure of heart, for they shall see God.” If you’re one of those who long for something better than running around and hopping from partner to partner, don’t despair. Instead of continuing to ruin your life and the lives of others in your family, tell God that you want to change. It will be hard. But that’s why St Peter said on the day of Pentecost: “Save yourself from this adulterous generation.”  jbabendreier@yahoo.co.uk   God forgives the most outrageous sin as long as you repent.