The boundary row pitting the Kalenjin and Luo communities has taken a new twist after some elders from Kericho County claimed parts of Kisumu County. This comes barely weeks after Nandi County claimed parts of Kisumu County. Elders from Kericho County are now claiming parts of Chemelil and Muhoroni, which are located within Kisumu County. The Myoot Kipsigis Council of Elders in Kericho led by its chairman, Retired Bishop Paul Leleito, has demanded that the boundaries between Kericho and Kisumu be redrawn on grounds that parts of the sugarcane growing areas were originally in Kericho County. MAPS “Historical maps indicate that areas in Kisumu County such as Chemelil and Muhoroni were originally located in Kericho. The areas were hived off from Kericho during the redrawing of the country’s maps,” said the retired African Gospel Church bishop. Mr Leleito called on the national government and the two counties to resolve the matter amicably. The bishop, who led more than 60 elders in a meeting in Kericho, said the call to redraw the border does not mean that Luos in the disputed areas will be evicted. TJRC REPORT Further, the elders said the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission report should be implemented so that Kalenjins who suffered historical injustices will finally find justice. There already exists a heated debate on how to resolve a similar dispute in which Nandi County wants the National Land Commission (NLC) to revert seven border towns from Kisumu to Nandi. The towns include Chemelil, Muhoroni, Miwani, Kibigori, Kibos, Koru and Kopere within its borders. Already, the legal teams and land officials in Nandi County have visited the disputed boundary between Nandi-Kisumu counties to prevail upon the two communities to maintain peace. MORE EVIDENCE They are also seeking more evidence which the elders would table to the NLC. The NLC is expected to start public hearings next month. Nandi County Land CEC Jacob Tanui and the Land Chief Officer Solomon Mangira yesterday said the county legal teams and elders from the county would hold meetings with their colleagues from Kisumu with the aim of finding a lasting solution to the land conflict between the two counties. Mr Tanui and Mr Mangira said elders from the Nandi community have received crucial information and documents which would be tabled before the the NLC panel, which would be holding public hearings at the AIC Kapsabet Bible College from July 10, 2018. He said: “The county government is urging both communities to live in harmony and reject incitement and allow the NLC team to conduct investigations so that the truth on the disputed boundary between the two counties is established.” Mr Mangira added: “The residents of the disputed boundary should continue their normal businesses without any fear." He said the two counties are members of the 14-member regional economic block and would would resolve the matter amicably.” On Tuesday, IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati said the commission is only mandated to address constituency boundaries.  