On March 13, 2017, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho was heading to his office in Mombasa town when he was held by security officers for hours at the Nyali bridge. President Uhuru Kenyatta was in town and was slated to preside over the re-launch of Mtongwe ferry services. The two leaders were embroiled in a war of words over various issues with Mr Joho using various public events, including presidential events, to criticise the Head of State and trash government projects at the Coast. As a result, President Kenyatta barred Mr Joho from attending his events. Before his arrival at the bridge, police had mounted a heavy search on vehicles to prevent Mr Joho from crossing to town. After an hour of stop-and-search, Mr Joho, who had abandoned his vehicle to beat the traffic, arrived at the police blockade on a motorcycle. The officers blocked and held him and Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir, who was also riding on a motorcycle. The officers escorted the governor to his office, where they stood guard and surrounded it before being joined by their colleagues from the Anti-Terror Police Unit. The security personnel only left after the presidential event was over. BITTER WAR The event marked the climax of a bitter war between the Jubilee Party leader and Mr Joho, who is ODM’s deputy party leader, with the two not seeing eye to eye. President Kenyatta also vowed to teach Mr Joho a lesson, with various government agencies investigating his family businesses, bank accounts and academic papers. The Mombasa county government accounts were not spared. The bitter war between the two, however, now seems to be over – thanks to a political truce between President Kenyatta and Nasa leader Raila Odinga. HANDSHAKE President Kenyatta and Mr Joho shook hands during the official opening of the first phase of the Sh11 billion Dongo-Kundu bypass in Mombasa, and exchanged pleasantries in what signalled a big change to Coast and national politics. Some locals likened Mr Joho’s handshake with President Kenyatta to that of US President Donald Trump and North Korea’s Kim Jong-Un as few imagined they could embrace each other only a few months ago. “I had never imagined President Kenyatta and Mr Joho would share a podium. This looks like the biggest outcome of the Uhuru-Raila handshake,” Mombasa resident Issa Makong said. WARM RECEPTION Clad in Muslim robes, Mr Joho arrived at the venue of the road launch in Bonje hours before the President and gave him a warm reception. He waved as he walked past the red carpet reserved for President Kenyatta and walked to the main dais where he sat and chatted freely with Jubilee leaders – Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya, Chief Administrative Secretary Gideon Mung’aro and Principal Secretary Nelson Marwa, who gave him sleepless nights in the past when he served as Coast regional coordinator. President Kenyatta hailed Mr Joho’s change of tune, saying it was time for all leaders to work together for development. Mr Joho, who was flanked by a number of Coast opposition MPs, received President Kenyatta to open the road and said he will work with the Head of State. He also shook hands with Deputy President William Ruto. “I want to assure you that we will engage further for the sake of our people,” Mr Joho said.  