Marsabit County residents have been warned against use of animal products following a ban on slaughter of animals in Wajir County due to Rift Valley fever outbreak. Speaking during a crisis meeting on Thursday, county director for public health Adano Kochi said that one out of two samples that had been sent to Kemri one came back positive for RVF. Mr Kochi said a 15-year-old boy who lost his life was not suffering from RVF as per the laboratory results from Kemri. "We have one patient at Marsabit Referral Hospital who has been undergoing treatment for kala-azar, and according to the results she is also suffering from RVF," said Mr Kochi. SMALL STOCK According to a report from the team that has been conducting surveillance, small stock from neighbouring Wajir and Mandera counties are all heading to Moyale market to cash on the festive season. The county director for veterinary services Boku Bodha said animals, especially small stock, are being ferried from both Wajir and Mandera to Moyale market. He said that the situation is putting Marsabit County residents at risk. "Mass slaughter of livestock during the Idd celebration is likely to pose a greater risk to the people. Luckily, RVF does not affect poultry so our people can use chicken as a substitute," said Mr Bodha. CAMEL ABORTION Livestock are mainly from areas bordering Badanrero, Bute,  Buna, Basir, Lakole, Rahmu, Daandu,  Qofole and wider Wajir and Mandera counties. Mr Bodha said that in the past three weeks the county has experienced increased cases of abortion in both camels and small stock as well as increased vector population. He added that five camels were found dead in Funanyatta while a farmer in Bori lost five of his 12 camels that aborted. "Abortion in livestock, haemorrhage and fever characterise RVF in animals. We have received reports of increased cases in other areas like Badanrero, Amballo, Ittir, Kargi, Olturot, Loglogo, Korr and Laisamis," said Mr Bodhi. INSTITUTE QUARANTINE North Horr, Balesa, Demo, Shuur and Maikona are also affected. Following the crisis, the veterinary department plans to enhance surveillance, institute ring vaccination to control disease spread, increase public awareness, institute quarantine of livestock, restrict home slaughter, and close livestock markets. "Due to stagnant waters around homesteads and night enclosures, there is marked increase in population of mosquitoes and other biting flies which have been a menace to livestock in the county," said Mr Bodha.   At least 200,000 livestock in areas bordering Wajir are at risk of contracting RFV.