SportPesa Premier League clubs Zoo Kericho and Bandari on Tuesday registered identical 1-0 away wins in their respective league matches in Mumias and Chemelil. Ten-men Zoo Kericho saw off Vihiga United at the Mumias Sports Complex, as visitors Bandari beat Chemelil at their Chemelil Sports Complex backyard. Veteran defender Felly Mulumba scored the sole goal for Bandari through an 11th minute penalty that his team was awarded after Chemelil’s Randy Bakari committed a foul inside the box. In Mumias, Zoo were helped by striker Bernard Odhiambo’s goal in the 51st minute that effectively saw them bounce back from last week’s 1-0 loss against Bandari. Zoo were reduced to 10-men in added time after referee Lucas Odhiambo issued a red card to Nicholas Kipkurui, who withheld the ball in spite of the whistler's order to release it. Zoo controlled most of the first half and they could have found the back of the net in the 11th minute, but Kepha Ondati’s shot was punched out by custodian Geoffrey Kutwa. Cheered on by a large crowd, Vihiga strikers gained confidence that saw their new signing Phillip Machuma hit the cross bar after he was put through by Charles Okwembah in the 38th minute. The teams tied 0-0 at the breather. After half time, Zoo mounted relentless attacks and in the 51st minute, Odhiambo beat defender Issack Kipyego to the ball before beating goal keeper Kutwa to score the sole goal of the match. Vihiga coach Edward Manoah made three substitutions, resting Marvin Otinya, Charles Okwembah and Vincent Wonder and summoning Geoffrey Airo, Patrick Okulo and Michael Misiko respectively in their places. Zoo tactician Sammy Okoth also made changes in his playing squad and introduced Danson Chetambe and goal scorer Bernard Odhiambo for Martin Oile and Dominic Kiprono. After the match, Manaoh expressed regret at the loss. “The problem is with the striking force which I will work on seriously if we are to make any impact,” he noted. His Zoo counterpart Okoth was elated at the victory. ”The boys played well. Few areas require urgent attention,” he said.  