Noah Simiyu’s request to his wife is not too much to ask, he believes. “World Cup is not a forever thing,” he tells Lifestyle. “May she in that period give me peace to watch the games? Then she can have the TV to herself for another four years.” Salomary, his wife of six years, also has a word to put across. “I’ll have to forego the remote for an eternity,” she says. “Please honey, can we buy another TV?” The couple that lives in Ongata Rongai was among those we interviewed to find out how the World Cup, which will be running in Russia from Thursday to mid next month, will change the order of things in households across Kenya. CRAZY ABOUT FOOTBALL Mr Simiyu, 39, is an ardent football fan who, when not shouting his lungs out for his beloved AFC Leopards, is closely monitoring English Premier League side Chelsea. The businessman recently shocked his wife when he bought six vuvuzelas “for me and my boys”. “Two got lost, somehow. We have four in our house,” said Mrs Simiyu, a 30-year-old social worker. The World Cup final will be played at 6pm Kenyan time on Sunday July 15, and Mr Simiyu will be watching it at home. His wife knows she will do little to stop her husband and his friends from taking over the living room. “I have already decided that I’ll go for a sleepover at my mum’s with our two little sons. I’ll leave enough food ready for a team of six football fans,” said Mrs Simiyu. Elsewhere in Migori County, Mr Isaac Newton Mbewa and his wife Roselyne are in for a fight. Mr Mbewa is an unapologetic football fanatic, who, according to his wife, “chooses football over connubial privileges”. Among the craziest things he has done in his love for the game is travelling all the way to Tanzania to watch his favourite team Gor Mahia square it out with Azam during the final of the 2015 Cecafa tournament. Gor were speared 2-0. Mr Mbewa believes football should be enjoyed outside home, with friends. “He says football is more interesting amid noises,” said a resigned Mrs Mbewa, a teacher. But Mr Mbewa, a psychoanalyst, knows there are World Cup games he will watch at home, which is why he recently bought a back-up power generator to ensure a power blackout will not cost him even a minute of action. “I will want to watch most games in the house. This will cause a huge conflict in the living room since my daughter is a great cartoon lover while my wife loves drama programmes,” said Mr Mbewa. And then came a war cry from his wife: “I have to keep following my favourite soap operas and other programmes.” Asked if he has a World Cup request for his 27-year-old wife, with whom they have been married for three years, Mr Mbewa, 29, could not let the chance pass. “I would want her to avoid any unnecessary nagging during this period because I have to concentrate on all games,” he said. The wife also had a message: “I will not open the gate past 9pm. Any match beyond that time must be watched in the house or missed. It’s either me or football.” It remains to be seen whether Mr Mbewa will heed the warning. This is a man so crazy with football that he has put his Volkswagen Passat car on the line after betting with a friend. BETS The friend has a Mercedes C180. In case Mr Mbewa’s favourite team Brazil wins the tournament, he will get the Mercedes. If the friend’s bet on Germany succeeds, Mr Mbewa's Volkswagen will be his. “If we both lose, we retain our cars,” he said, laughing. We also spoke with a couple in Nairobi that has been living together for a month. Ouma and Purity (they wanted to be identified with only one name) will have lesser fights in the house because the wife admits she is not so much into TV. “I am the only one who seriously watches TV in the house,” Ouma said. Even in matters football, he said, his wife is the least interested and she only supports the winning team in any game. “She keeps switching between teams during the same match!” he lamented. Ouma will most likely watch the final game in his house and his fiancée is preparing for the worst. “I suspect, though, that the friends will be brought over! I Just hope he doesn’t expect me to be the caterer!” she said, also asking him to “stop forcing me to watch matches with him and to at least stick to his gym”. His request is that she should spare him from some responsibilities at home. “I will be emotionally divided,” he said. On social media, a number of “rules” have been doing the rounds on how women should behave during the World Cup season. “Non-soccer conversations shall not be tolerated within regulation, injury, extra time or during penalties,” says one. “There shall be no comments about Cristiano Ronaldo’s looks. Professionalism shall remain an absolute part of the World Cup,” another says. “Repeats and highlights are as good as the main match, so I’m going to watch them. Don’t you bother to switch the channel,” states yet another. Then another rule: “We can watch Africa Magic provided actors and actresses are wearing soccer jerseys and they are in Russia.” Clearly, the banter is already building up. But the tournament, one of the biggest sport showpieces in the globe, will affect more than relations in the family: Increased business at recreational spots As it happens with televised matches from the top European leagues, pubs and restaurants will be sure to receive increased traffic during the World Cup season. “We have members who are requesting for more seats to accommodate the number of people. They are expecting a high turnout of clients in their outlets,” Ms Eunice Ogea, an executive officer with the Pubs and Restaurants Association of Kenya, told Lifestyle. The rider, she said, is that because the tournament will be shown on NTV and other platforms, there will not be so much of a surge in revenues. “With football being shown in our outlets, we don’t do much business,” she said. “But we have diehard fans who will definitely show up.” Ms Ogea encouraged Kenyans to turn up at their favourite joints to enjoy the game. “I ask them to take care, not to cause problems,” she said. Divided attention at work Ten of the 40 group stage matches will be played before 5pm, the closing hour of most workplaces. Among them is the Egypt versus Uruguay match to be played at 3pm., this Friday, and the Brazil versus Costa Rica clash to happen the same hour on Friday, June 22. This is likely to make some workers craft all manner of excuses to ensure that they catch the games during working hours. But things will look up for the football-crazy workers after the group stages, as all matches will be played at either 5pm or 9pm, with the exception of the final. But even as employees seek creative ways to catch matches, American researcher Neal Taparia believes the World Cup can improve workers’ productivity if the opportunity is used well. In a Forbes magazine article, he has a blunt message for employers: “Employees are going to watch games. There’s no way around it. So why not embrace that and try to avoid some of the real problems that could come out of it?” He advises companies to use the month to give workers a time-off and focus more on result-oriented work. He also urges employers to stream games in conference rooms. “Some of our sales webinars (in the past) were interrupted because internet bandwidth was being used to stream the game on a number of computers. When we streamed the game publicly for everyone in one place, our internet speed increased dramatically. “Additionally, people watching can do work on their laptops while listening to and occasionally glancing up at the game,” writes Neal. Student unrest Students in various learning institutions might be tempted to protest the denial of a chance to watch the games. Among the most volatile places are secondary schools, which will be in session for much of the duration of the global tournament. To ensure there are no flare-ups in those institutions, Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association chairman Kahi Indimuli advises fellow principals to dialogue with learners. “My appeal to principals is that we manage the anxiety that is going to come,” he said. “It is important that we discuss with our students early enough to agree on which games they will be able to watch, depending on the timing, and which ones they will not be able to watch.” In Mr Indimuli’s view, it is when teachers become too strict that students become unruly. “If we try to restrict, there are two things that will happen. One, it will encourage them to sneak out of school and once they sneak you’d want to punish them. Two, some will resist and in the process, they’ll want to cause some damage,” he warned. Unfaithfulness Some individuals are likely to take advantage of games being aired at night to cheat on their spouses. When Lifestyle contacted comedian Wilson Muirania alias Jaymo Ule Msee for a comment on the matter, he chose to argue for the menfolk. “We would like to inform our wives and girlfriends that we have dedicated this World Cup time as our contribution to the ‘Building Bridges Initiative,’” he joked. “One may ask how; but this World Cup time we will be mingling with members of different communities in different entertainment joints where we will be discussing how our great nation will move forward as well as watch the World Cup. “It’s because of this reason of sacrifice for our great nation that we will not be watching football in our houses with you despite NTV broadcasting the matches,” added Jaymo, a self-proclaimed patron of Team Mafisi — the collective nickname for randy men. “We promise to be coming home on time after the discussions during this World Cup time,” he concluded. But it appears it is not only men who capitalise on the opportunity. The Telegraph newspaper reports that ahead of the 2014 World Cup, there was a surge in the number of women using a site where people seek no-strings-attached relationships. The paper quoted the website spokesman saying there was a 67 per cent rise in female activity on the site in the months leading up to the football event. “There is a large number of women who are feeling neglected due to World Cup fever being their partner’s number one priority. Some of the new members even mention the fact they had signed up just because they were sick and tired of coming second to football matches and decided to ‘play away’ themselves during the World Cup,” Mike Taylor, a spokesman of the website, said. But The Telegraph’s women issues writer Radhika Sanghani opined that while she did not doubt the figures, there could be other factors leading to the women’s behaviour. Surge in betting It could not come in a more enticing fashion than a Sh5 million jackpot being offered by Betika! for anyone who predicts correctly the outcome of 15 World Cup group stage games that include England vs Belgium, Portugal vs Spain and Nigeria vs Iceland. A message on the Betika! website on Friday said those who would wish to have a go at the jackpot had seven days to do so. Online, various pundits have been sharing tips on how to make sure predictions of match outcomes, using Fifa rankings and such factors. It is expected that betting firms will make a tidy sum from Kenyans, who would want to mint a coin or two as they watch the games.  