Religious leaders and residents of Namisi village in Nambale, Busia County, are trying to understand why the grave of local cleric collapsed days after his burial. The brick walls of the grave of Gilgory Namunyu – United Christian Church founder – collapsed just three days after his burial last Saturday with the church faithful believing the late cleric was sending a message to his family. Cardinal Protus Kulundu of the Legio Mario church said the incident happened after family members overlooked the burial wishes of Mr Namuyu, himself a former Legio Maria clergy. “We have cleansed the graveyard with anointing oil to appease his soul after his family went against his wishes. The collapse of the grave is a show of his anger to his kinsmen and the church after mistreating him in death,” said Mr Kulundu. “Mzee was very categorical that when he dies, I should oversee his burial. No bishop will be allowed to do it. I will give him a befitting burial as archbishop who served the Legio Maria church diligently,” added Cardinal Kulundu. He said the soil from the grave will be removed and a tent erected before a requiem mass is held. “I will not tell you when we are going to conduct the mass, but we will conduct it in required attire. I just came today to witness the incident.” When the Nation visited the home, fellow clergymen were praying for the soul of departed around the grave, pleading with him to “remain calm.” Mr Patrick Namunyu, the son of the departed, said they ignored his burial wishes after the two churches began fighting over who should bury him. “He moved churches from Legio Maria to the United Christian Church, which he established in 2002. The infighting between the churches is what prompted us to go ahead with the burial,” he said. Mr Joseph Onyango, the mason who built the grave, however, dismissed any claims of poor workmanship. “Of  all the graves I have constructed this is the first one to cave in. I am shocked that the stones I used in construction of the grave have disappeared,” he said.  