Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) MPs from Kwale County have differed sharply over support for Deputy President (DP) William Ruto's 2022 presidential bid. On the one hand, some Kwale MPs support ODM threats to punish disloyal members who have openly vowed to support Mr Ruto's bid while on the other hand, others claim supporting the DP has brought development. Kwale Woman Representative Zuleikha Juma took issue with ODM MPs backing Mr Ruto's bid, accusing them of disloyalty and lack of respect. “When the electorates voted you in, they knew they are voting you in that party to stay. If you did not want to follow the party, you should have vied as an independent candidate,” she said. She called on the party leadership to punish the rebel MPs for disloyalty. “I support the party’s intention to punish them," Ms Juma said. Ms Juma said President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga truce does not mean ODM joined Jubilee Party. DEVELOPMENT But Msambweni MP Suleiman Dori dismissed Ms Juma’s sentiments on rebel lawmakers. “We support William Ruto not for our own gain but for the benefit of our people," he said, adding that on July 22 the DP will be at Kombani to issue 2,600 tittle deeds to Kwale people. His sentiments were echoed by Kinango MP Benjamin Tayari and his Matuga counterpart Kassim Tandaza. Mr Tayari said his constituency has benefited for supporting the government. He cited ongoing construction of Samburu-Kinango road and the promise for construction of a Sh450m dam. Matuga MP Tandaza said they will be doing injustice to the electorate if they keep them in the opposition. He said by supporting Ruto, he was promised construction of Tiribe-Shimba Hills road and a Technical Training Institute in his constituency. “These are some of the development projects that will determine in what direction that we will take in 2022,” said Mr Tandaza. However, Kwale County Assembly Speaker Sammy Ruwa faulted the MPs, telling that development is not a favour from government but a right regardless of political stance. “Don’t tell us to support this leader or the other because of development. We elected you to National Assembly to discuss and approve THE national budget that will bring development to us, not to kneel down to some people,” he said. The leaders spoke on Saturday during Kwale County Deputy Speaker Andrew Mulei's homecoming party at Shimba Hills. “I want you to know that we are not going to support your call to endorse Ruto's 2022 presidential bid until we are recognised and see development in our area," said Mr Mulei. However, Tiaty MP William Kamket asked residents to support the Raila-Uhuru handshake to avoid remaining in opposition forever.   From a near joint presidency in the first term, the two leaders can now hardly hide hostility.