Is it not strange that we are taught how to acquire skills that will get us our dream job, but nobody really teaches us when we should quit this job we coveted and worked so hard for? So we rely on society for the answers that when the time comes we will get the timing right and know when to call it a day. Some people choose to leave when they are at the end of their tether and cannot withstand one more day on the job. Others resign in anger, others on a whim. Meanwhile, there are those who never let go even after passing the retirement age by a decade. They are the ones who seem to know everyone since the institution begun, part of the furniture if you like. ZIDANEThen there are those who consciously and knowingly decide to step down in a blaze of glory while still on top of their game. They are the envy of their peers, admired by the young and old, revered and referenced in their field as the very best. They are the pioneers, trendsetters of their generation and they know it. This begs the question; is there ever a perfect or ideal time to resign? On Thursday, Zinedine Zidane announced that he was resigning as Real Madrid head coach just five days after becoming the first manager to win three consecutive UEFA Champions League trophies. The question on the lips of many was: Why? VICTORSIn his press conference Zidane said: “This is a strange moment to step down, but a very important one. I had to do this for everyone. For the team to continue winning it needs a change and that’ll be good for everyone. After three years it needs another discourse, another way of working, that’s why I took this decision.” What more does a football club need than to remain in its current winning streak? While I admire Zidane’s selflessness, I am not entirely convinced there will be another like him. Many have tried, got fired, resigned and retired without a single UEFA champions’ league title let alone three in a row. UEFAThe quality of Zidane’s coaching is quite evidently superior to most. Not only that, he has raised the bar so high that even seasoned coaches may not reach. Which other way of working will the next Real Madrid coach seek if not to win four UEFA Champions league trophies in row? Granted, winning the La Liga twice in a row would be quite commendable, but does it rival the UEFA trophy? “There are a lot of memories, such as lifting the Champions League,” Zidane said. “If there’s one as a coach, however, it is winning La Liga; for me, winning La Liga was the maximum you can achieve”. THRESHOLDThrough his resignation, Zidane has already set an impossible task for his successor. I would assume most managers would be quite hesitant to follow in his footsteps. Which direction do you take a club that has made history as the first to win the UEFA champions league after having a first appointment manager mid-season, then twice in a row and then three times in a row? The winning threshold is already too high to contend with and you are conscious it only stopped because he resigned. The thought someone else could do a better job will linger at the back of your mind. CHANGEWho then should we bear in mind when choosing to call it a day? Our successor, the team or ourselves? “The players need change. I want to thank them because it is them who fight,” Zidane said. “We ask a lot of them, but there comes a moment when you think what more can I ask after what they’ve done for me?” I find my mind perplexed at what change Cristiano Ronaldo would need if he will still be in the club next season. SUCCESS Did Zidane resign in sympathy because, having been a football player, he appreciated his training and coaching regime was highly intense and gruelling, driving his players to tears? Whatever his real reasons, Zinedine Zidane has reminded us you can start a new job, become the best the world will ever see in under three years and then step down! You do not have to hold on to power because you have it; letting go is just as powerful. While I do not agree with his decision, I will respect it. Burini works with international businesses on commercial litigation. gladysburini1@gmail.com  