The Ministry of Sports has summoned Kenya Rugby Union officials after the national sevens team concealed the branding of one of their sponsor, Brand Kenya, during the Paris Sevens at the weekend. Sport Cabinet Secretary Rashid Echesa on Tuesday said that the ministry is already investigating the incident that was apparently a protest against the non-payment of Sh4million to players. He was speaking in Nyeri during the opening of a sports stakeholders workshop. Echesa said that there had been an agreement that players would receive their pay after they returned from the Paris leg of the World Rugby Sevens Series but the players and technical bench agreement protested in Paris by concealing the branding of their kits in all their matches in Paris except the opening game against New Zealand. “We had agreed that they will be paid after the last leg. But when they got there the players demanded that the money should be sent to them. We do not understand how the deal came to break down but we will get to the bottom of it,” the Sports CS said. He warned of serious action on whoever was found culpable of breaching the agreement insisting the team was well financed for the tournament. Kenya Sevens were to be given a token of Sh100,000 each from the Sh4 million of the Brand Kenya deal besides being paid their wages. However, the Sports CS remained coy on the bribery allegations against Kenya's Fifa-accredited assistant referee Aden Marwa. Echesa kept off the topic only saying that the matter is under review and that the ministry is waiting for a report from Football Kenya Federation. “FKF has been summoned on the matter and once we get their report we will decide on the next step,” the CS said. Referee Marwa was caught on tape receiving money from an undercover journalist in an expose aired by BBC last week. Marwa was among the 63 assistant referees set to officiate at the 2018 World Cup in Russia.   They had played New Zealand in their opening match with the sponsor’s message still on their jerseys.