IN MOSCOW, RUSSIAWhen Russia’s Yuri Gazinsky scored the first goal of the 2018 Fifa World Cup in the 16th minute against Saudi Arabia in the opening match on Thursday, the tournament’s Local Organising Committee, and by extension all Russians, breathed a sigh of relief. The reputation of some 144.3 million Russians had been at stake since the country won the rights to host the greatest football show on earth. With a struggling domestic league whose teams struggle to make an impact in European club football, many had doubted whether Russia would prepare 12 stadiums in time for the tournament. But on Thursday, years of hard work that started in 2010 when Russia won hosting rights of the tournament finally started coming to fruition. Sitting inside Luzhniki Stadium for the first match, many fans shed tears of joy at the sight of captain Igor Akinfeev leading the home team out of the dressing room into the stadium. It means a lot for a country to host the World Cup. Bragging rights aside, a country gets to literally host the world and to showcase its culture, hospitality, and tourism sites. The legacy that the tournament leaves behind in terms of physical infrastructure and sporting facilities is huge. Sadly, many of the facilities left behind by the tournament fall into disuse and become white elephants. When Russia bid to host the 2018 World Cup, the possibility of the country hosting the tournament always looked remote. And when the country won the right to host the tournament, world politics and the attendant competing interests among countries, Russia’s poor human rights record and failure by Russia to establish itself as a strong footballing nation emerged as some of the threats to Russia’s moment of pride. Placed 70th globally in Fifa ranking, Russia went into the tournament as the lowest ranked team competing in the event. In 2015, Sepp Blatter, who was serving suspension from his role as Fifa president, said the decision to award Russia the hosting rights had been made long before the voting process. Blatter had been suspended for 90 days alongside Uefa president Michel Platini while investigations into suspicious payment was taking place. According to the Guardian, Blatter believed that Fifa would not have been entangled in a crisis had the US been awarded the 2022 World Cup instead of Qatar, saying that France had intervened to change the planned course of events. “In 2010 we had a discussion of the World Cup and then we went to a double decision. For the World Cups it was agreed that we go to Russia because it’s never been in Russia, Eastern Europe, and for 2022 we go back to America. And so we will have the World Cup in the two biggest political powers. And everything was good until the moment when (France president Nicholas) Sarkozy came in a meeting with the crown prince of Qatar. And at a lunch afterwards with Mr Platini he said it would be good to go to Qatar. And this has changed all pattern,” Blatter told the Guardian. And in April, former British Prime Minister David Cameron implied that Russia won the rights to host the tournament through bribery. England’s bid to host the tournament had been tossed out in the first round of the bidding process along with a joint bid by Spain, Portugal, Belgium and Holland. And so on Thursday in his speech during the opening ceremony that lasted 15 minutes, President Vladimir Putin welcomed the world to Russia and told visiting fans and officials to feel comfortable as the first of 64 matches in 12 stadiums spread over 11 Russian cities was about to be played, it was a crowning moment for Russia. Fifa President Gianni Infantino emphasised the role of football in creating friendships. “As of today, for one month, football will conquer Russia and from Russia, football will conquer the world. Enjoy the biggest celebration on earth,” Infantino said. Russians are dreaming on after the 5-0 drubbing of Saudi Arabia.  