The Lamu County government has received a major boost after Jaffer Foundation donated a rescue boat to help in dealing with marine accidents. The boat, which is christened MV Bajun, was received Governor Fahim Twaha in a colourful event held at the Lamu KPA Jetty on Sunday. On various occasions, the county has witnessed deaths mostly after boats capsize in the Indian Ocean. Locals have also been criticising both the national and county governments for their failure to form a special disaster response unit and also failure to buy rescue boats that can deal with marine-related accidents in the region.   MARINE SAFETY But addressing the public during the event, Governor Twaha lauded the Jaffer Foundation for supporting marine safety in the county. Mr Twaha said lack of rescue boats was a challenge in Lamu and that the boat donation has come on time. He said his government will work together with the agency and other well-wishers for the benefit of Lamu people. The governor added that the county will train eighteen youths who will be operating the rescue boat in order to save lives at sea. “We are happy to receive the rescue boat. We have had several boat tragedies. This boat will be put to proper use to save lives at sea. We will identify and train 18 youths who will be part of the rescue team operating this boat. We are also planning to purchase more rescue boats for our county,” said Mr Twaha.   SUPPORT COUNTY Mr Mohamed Jaffer of the Jaffer Foundation said he will continue to support Lamu in achieving its development goals. Apart from the rescue boat, Mr Jaffer also revealed plans to cooperate with the Lamu County government in improving the lives of the youth, women and the disabled people in the region. During the event, Mr Jaffer pledged to donate Sh1 million to assist women groups in the county. He said his foundation will also provide a boat ambulance to help in ferrying patients and health workers to various destinations in the region. “We want to end the hustles that our people in Lamu go through especially during marine accidents. We have witnessed lives being lost at sea during boat accidents. “This rescue boat will be of great help once such incidents occur. Our joy resides in our seeing that you are comfortable. Be responsible and take care of this vessel so that it can serve you well,” said Mr Jaffer.  