Last Sunday, as a member of the Presbyterian Church of East Africa (PCEA), I attended church service in Kimunyu, Gatundu South Constituency. This, in itself, is no big deal, but considering that I ordinarily tend to give church a wide berth for reasons that will remain private, it was a revelation. Gone were the reservations I always harboured against preachers who rail at everyone else to get saved or else. Figuratively speaking, most of them too often preach water and drink everything else, inducing deep disillusionment in many would-be believers. However, I have come to figure out that salvation is, after all, a personal issue, not a church or group thing. ROLE MODELAnyway, the reason I woke up earlier than usual was to “escort” my church elder, Grace Wairimu Mburu, who, with five others, was formally retiring. In her quiet, self-effacing way, she has, over time, pulled me closer to the church without ever preaching at me or showing revulsion at my sinful ways. Wa-Sir, as she is fondly known, has never been judgemental – she always made me feel like a normal human being hobbled by ordinary weaknesses. For that, I’ll forever remain indebted to her, because she proved that one does not have to wear piety on his or her sleeve to do good in this world. There are many churchgoers and leaders like Wa-Sir, but there are many more who are the exact opposite – people who live their entire adult lives in denial about their own venality, zealots who always see evil in other people and never in themselves. RITUALMany examples of such people exist in every religion, but blatant hypocrisy seems to have become the forte of this religion, which is why the PCEA leadership must decide what is more important – reforming the church or banning innocuous cultural practices. Three weeks ago, there was a hue and cry when the church’s highest governing body, the General Assembly, declared it was barring its members from participating in a Kikuyu cultural ritual, Mburi cia Kiama, in which male adults donate a goat or two to be eaten by their age-mates as a way of seeking acceptance as tribal elders. The main aim of this simple ritual is to advise men what they should and should not do in their daily lives in terms of observing cultural norms, marriage and community responsibilities. IDENTITYThe ritual is completely devoid of politics and has nothing to do with worship of any deity or idol. What the church leaders seem to oppose most is the symbolic consumption of a traditional Kikuyu brew by elders and initiates alike. If a man has not undergone it, he is regarded as a boy regardless of his age or marital status, and may not participate in activities like negotiating bride price, for instance, which is men’s work. As far as I know, nothing in this ceremony should raise the hackles of church leaders. Historically, there are many practices that the church has, with justification, frowned upon. Among them are polygamy, (Lord knows why since a number of clerics, especially married ones, avidly practise serial monogamy), clitoridectomy, witchcraft, homosexuality and prostitution. PRACTICESSuch strictures make a great deal of sense if the tribe is to survive with its mores intact. In any case, many such practices – except adultery – are against the law of the land. So why would PCEA leaders go out of their way to ban a harmless ritual? When did they last speak with such a loud voice against the far worse evils bedevilling this country like runaway corruption, grand theft, tribalism, paedophilia, oppression, and other forms of immorality and crime? Why should they be worried that grown men are advised against eating certain pieces of meat from a ritually slaughtered goat, venturing into their daughters’ bedroom at any one time, or associating too closely with uncircumcised boys? EVILPCEA, which is only four-million strong in Kenya, has had its share of problems which remain unresolved. Among its adherents are thieves, perverts, witches and people who see demons at every corner. Among them too are deacons who murder their wives and devotees who, with their clandestine lovers, plot the destruction of their husbands. These are the people the church should be concerned about, not how much muratina a member drinks once in a lifetime. With such uncompromising and hypocritical edicts, the church is unlikely to attract many new members who can see through the hypocrisy. Magesha Ngwiri is a consultant editor. andrewngwiri@gmail.com  