Tourism Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala has cancelled the Sh20 million Brand Kenya sponsorship to the Kenya Sevens rugby team popularly known as Shujaa. The CS said the team embarrassed the country by blocking the ‘Make it Kenya’ brand during the Paris leg of the World Sevens Series on the weekend of June 9 and 10. Kenya Sevens played the entire tournament with the branding of their shirt sponsor, Brand Kenya, concealed. Apparently the action was a protest against non-payment of Sh4 million to the players. He further directed the Brand Kenya CEO to immediately pay the players the 2.4million owed to them. “I have never seen an employee abuse their parents following a dispute with their employer at work. I therefore do not understand how the differences between the KRU and the players affected the sponsors because as sponsors we had given KRU Sh4 million as advance, part of which they could have paid the players”, Balala said in Mombasa on Thursday. He said Kenya Sevens were appointed as Brand Kenya ambassadors with the aim of promoting the country over the next eight months in their worldwide tour following their brilliant performances on the pitch. Under the agreement, Balala says the KRU was to pocket Sh17.6 Million with Sh2.4 million going directly to the players with each player getting Sh100,000. “It does not therefore make sense to me that KRU could not even use part of the Sh4 million we had advanced them to pay the players part of their share, while they await more funding from us”, a visibly angry Balala, who also blamed the players for being unpatriotic said. He however admitted that they would be open to renegotiations with KRU but challenged them to put their house in order before they approach them. “This is a typical African behaviour because I have never seen any other countries outside Africa stage a sit in over payment. We cannot engage with people who are disorganised and cannot appreciate what we are doing for them”, he said. KRU chairman Richard Omwela warned that there will be consequences for people who incited Kenya Sevens players to conceal “Make It Kenya” from on their jerseys while Chief of Staff and Head of the Presidential Delivery Unit (PDU) Nzioka Waita said that the sports ministry must find out why the Union failed to release payments to Kenya Sevens team. “KRU should take notice that there is a new law in place regulating sports federations. We can’t allow this sort of embarrassment at the international stage,” said Waita on his Twitter handle. They can’t let down our boys when they continue to promote our country so well,” said Waita on his twitter handle. Omwela disclosed that Kenya Sevens were to be given a token of Sh 100,000 each that was Sh 4 million from the Brand Kenya deal. Omwela clarified that the Sh 20 million sponsorship from Brand Kenya also caters for other national teams too and not Kenya Sevens only. Omwela said Brand Kenya had not remitted the money before the team left for the last two legs of the World Series in London and Paris. “We told Kenya Sevens that they will get their money as soon as they are back from Paris.” The Ministry of Sports summoned Kenya Rugby Union officials after the incident, warning of serious action on whoever was found culpable of breaching the agreement insisting the team was well financed for the tournament.  