Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has threatened to sue Nyali MP Mohammed Ali for linking her with the loss of Sh9 billion at the National Youth Service (NYS). The governor, through her lawyer Mohammed Muigai, accused Mr Ali of making defamatory statements against her and gave the legislator seven days to write an apology. Earlier on Tuesday, Mr Ali released a statement linking the governor and nine other government officials with the NYS scandal. Mr Ali had also said that at least 40 companies should be investigated for loss of public funds. "Evidence has been brought to my attention that now points to the alleged involvement of other senior government officials,  banks and business people whose names have been studiously avoided by both the investigators and the media," claimed the first-term MP. SERIES OF THEFT “These people and institutions, it would seem from the evidence I have been given, were involved in NYS1, and may very well be involved in this second series of thefts from the National Youth Service," he added in the statement. However, Governor Waiguru termed Mr Ali’s words as defamatory. “In their natural and ordinary meaning, or by necessary implications, the words published were meant and were indeed understood to mean that our client is a common thief, an embezzler of public funds, corrupt, a flagrant law-breaker, involved in corruption scandals and unfit to hold public office,” said Ms Waiguru’s lawyer. LACKED BASIS She said the MP's statement lacked basis as he did not make any attempt to establish its factuality. “Take notice that unless we hear from you on the above within (7) days hereof, we have mandatory instructions to institute legal proceedings against you at your own peril as to costs and attendant consequences," lawyer Muigai told Mr Ali. The governor's threat comes three years after she sued Opposition leader Raila Odinga for linking her with the first NYS scandal where more than Sh791 million was lost. Mr Odinga declined to apologise, leading to a court battle. Last year, Mr Odinga lost bid to have the governor compelled by court to provide information on her lifestyle.  