County assemblies have until this Saturday to pass their Budgets for this year and already, some have done it in dramatic fashion. For instance, Kakamega and Busia county assemblies were this week rocked by chaos as ward reps fought over the allocations. In Kakamega, MCAs affiliated to the majority Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) had an altercation with their counterparts from the Amani National Congress (ANC) and Jubilee parties over the millions of shillings set aside for the construction of the governor’s two residences. And in Busia, the Budget and Appropriations Committee was disbanded after its members were accused of demanding a Sh1.5 million bribe each in order to approve the 2018/2019 estimates. AD HOC COMMITTEE An ad hoc committee was formed in its place to approve the estimates. The straw that broke the camel’s back in Kakamega was the proposal by the county government to construct two official residences for Governor Wycliffe Oparanya. The minority side was concerned the same project had consumed Sh200 million during the first term of devolution but was still being included in the 2018/19 budget. Led by Isukha South ward representative Mr Farouk Machanje, those in the minority recalled that the same plan was started in 2014/15 and an allocation of Sh50 million approved to kick start the construction of a county State House in Lugari. But it is the proposal to build a second county lodge in Lurambi that irked the county legislators from the minority side in the assembly. Mr Machanje argued the governor’s residence in Lugari Sub County had been receiving an allocation of Sh50 million every financial year since 2014, bringing the total amount allocated to the house to Sh200 million. “Why hasn’t this House (in Lugari) been completed? Where has the money that was being allocated towards the project for the last four years been going to?” asked Mr Machanje. SECOND HOUSE His Butali-Chegulo ward counterpart Mr Kelvin Mahelo objected to the plan to start the construction of a second house in Lurambi Sub-County. He said counties are only allowed to build one house for the governor. On Wednesday, the majority side voted in the favour of the budget, disregarding issues raised by their colleagues in the minority. They also approved the Kakamega County Appropriations Bill, 2018 which allows the county government to start implementing the spending plan. In Busia, an ad hoc committee had to be picked by speaker Bernard Wamalwa after the previous team led by Nangina MCA John Obwogo was disbanded after it linked the ward representatives to bribery claims of Sh79.5 million. The team was also accused of failing to account for some money especially a budgetary allocation for the county First Lady that was seen by the MCAs as a cash cow for the Executive.  Reporting by Shaban Makokha, Gaitano Pesa and Derrick Luvega  