President Kenyatta yesterday stepped up the fight against corruption by ordering that all procurement and accounts bosses undergo fresh vetting and take a lie detector test by the end of this month. Speaking at Kinoru Stadium in Meru during celebrations to mark Madaraka Day yesterday, President Kenyatta said the fresh vetting and the polygraph tests will weed out those who are corrupt and unsuitable to hold office. A lie detector works by testing the variation of temperature, heartbeat and other features to find out if a person is lying. It is common in developed countries to detect liars though some people are trained to beat the detectors. Lie detectors are commonly used by American investigative agencies, including the FBI and CIA. PROCUREMENT “Those who shall fail the vetting will stand suspended. I expect this exercise to be concluded before the start of the new financial year (FY 2018/2019),” said Mr Kenyatta. In comments supported by leaders interviewed by the Saturday Nation, the President promised more tough action on the corrupt in the next few days. His comments are likely to send jitters in parastatals and other public institutions that have been adversely mentioned in corruption reports. Already, the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPD) is at the centre of a storm over irregular payments to well-connected suppliers. Various other institutions in energy and infrastructure have also been on the spotlight. The President’s tough talk comes weeks after officials implicated in looting of funds at the National Youth Service were arrested and charged. The net also roped in directors of companies that received the tenders running into billions of shillings. This is not the first time that procurement officers in government are facing a possible axe. PARASTATALS When the Narc government under President Mwai Kibaki came to power in 2003, it sent all the 1,000 procurement officers home. The department, which had been centralised under the Finance Ministry, was decentralised with every ministry and parastatal having its own procurement department. Yesterday, Mr Kenyatta compared corruption to colonialism, noting that there was need for patriotic Kenyans to join hands in the fight, just like freedom fighters fought for independence. He, however, said the prosecution, police and other institutions fighting the vice would only succeed if the Judiciary prevents “frivolous and obstructive use of the court system to avoid responsibility”. “I have resolved to lead this nation in getting rid of corruption and division, the main challenges we face today, just like colonialism was then. I appeal to all Kenyans to join me in the war that we have started, to vanquish corruption,” he said. DEVELOPMENT While citing the moral decay that has engulfed the country, the President lamented that in many instances, crooks were being treated as heroes. “We know of teachers who impregnate students. Preachers who swindle their flocks. Lawyers who defraud clients. Architects building houses using shortcuts, leading to collapse of such buildings. Doctors giving false diagnoses to increase their fees.” Deputy President William Ruto, former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, South Africa’s Deputy President David Mabuza, Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi, senior Government officials and members of the diplomatic corps joined thousands of Kenyans from all walks of life who graced the event held in Meru for the first time in the country’s history. The next national holiday, Mashujaa Day, will be held in Kakamega on October 20. Mr Odinga said his resolve to unite with President Kenyatta was meant to help fight the vices slowing development in the country. TRIBALISM “The vices that our four fathers resolved to fight at independence are still with us today. Some have become worse. This is why we resolved to unite and bring Kenyans together. We want to stop enmity, end tribalism and poverty, create jobs for the youth and improve quality of life,” Mr Odinga said. Deputy President William Ruto said the move to shake hands with opposition leaders was meant to help Kenyans focus on development, adding that it will also help in the campaign against corruption. “We want to avoid mismanagement of public resources and corruption. I am assuring the President that he has our unqualified support,” Mr Ruto said. While backing the call to fight corruption, various leaders said there was need for a sustained campaign, institutionalisation of anti-corruption efforts, speedy trials of suspects and punishment of those found guilty. Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga said in his county, procurement officers together with other members of staff will be vetted and their lifestyles audited to tame rampant corruption in the country. LIFE SENTENCE “I will subject myself to the same audit. Procurement officers will be vetted too. We will not have sacred cows in Nyeri. Anyone found guilty of corruption will have action taken against them,” said Mr Kahiga. KRA chairman Francis Muthaura said the entire public service must be engaged in the anti-corruption campaign while Nyeri Town MP Wambugu Ngunjiri promised to table a Motion in Parliament that seeks to have corruption treated as a capital offence with culprits facing death or life imprisonment. During his address, the President said that the realisation of the Big Four development pillars will only come true with concerted action aimed at eliminating the numerous barriers facing the country. He had announced late last year that he will focus on health, agriculture, manufacturing and food security as growth targets during his second and final term in office. In pursuit of universal healthcare, the government is now extending health insurance to every household. FUNERAL SERVICE Already, a pilot project is being undertaken on the health insurance in Kisumu, Isiolo, Machakos, and Nyeri counties before it is rolled out to every part of the country. And to hasten the process, President Kenyatta pledged his administration’s support to governors who would enrol their residents to the scheme. On food security, he said the government targets to produce 2.76 million bags of maize, potato, rice and feeds in 52,000 acres by the end of this year, with an additional 70,000 acres targeted under public-private partnership for the listed crops, cotton and aquaculture. The President is set to attend a funeral service of National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi’s mother in Embu Saturday and later the homecoming party of EAC CS Peter Munya in Meru.   President Kenyatta tells officials implicated in graft to carry their own cross.