Kakamega Homeboyz shocked Tanzanian giants Yanga 3-1 to advance to the semi-finals of the SportPesa Super Cup on Sunday at the Afraha Stadium in Nakuru. Former Harambee Stars striker Allan Watende Wanga scored a brace inside the opening 30 minutes, before an 86th minute strike from second half substitute Wycliffe Opondo sealed the emphatic result for the Kenyan side. Homeboyz will now await the winner of the Kariobangi Sharks and Simba SC clash set to be played at the same venue on Monday. “ I dedicate these goals to my two children, my wife and teammates,” said the 28-year-old Opondo. Wanga was equally elated after slotting the two goals. "I am so happy to score these goals and I dedicate them to my wife Brenda Wanga, my employer Kakamega County and fellow players for their great support in pushing my football career to the apex," said Wanga, who is also a Sports Director in the Kakamega County Government. Yanga failed to live up to their motto “ Daima mbele Nyuma mwiko (Forward ever backwards never) as the first time participants Kakamega Homeboyz attacked their defence, which remained under siege as the home boys mounted pressure in the opening 30 minutes. Wanga, who was a constant threat to the Yanga defence marshalled by Said Ali, Adallah Shaibu, Mwinyi Mgwali and Hassan Ramadhan, nearly opened the scoring in the 24th minute when he missed a sitter inside the six yard.   However, four minutes later Wanga fastened on a lose ball inside the danger zone and unleashed a powerful shot past goalkeeper Rostand Youthe. The goal saw the Paul Nkata men intensify their search for more goals and as their opponents' defence continued to wilt under intense pressure, one of the opponents defenders hacked Wanga inside the box prompting Ethiopian referee Belay Tadesse to point to the spot. Wanga stepped forward to make it 2-0. Six minutes to the breather, Young Africans were awarded a free kick just outside the 18 meters and Simon Matheo lifted the ball over the Kakamega Homeboyz wall to the roof of the net past goalkeeper Michael Wanyika. In the second half, Ugandan-born coach Nkata, who is a former Tusker tactician rested Wanga, Bhai Ali and Noah Wafula and introduced Hassan Kokoyo, Wycliffe Opondo and George Mandela. This move saw the Kenyan side push forward for more goals. Yanga's Zambian-born assistant coach Noel Mwandila made a quick substitution and brought in Ibrahim Migomba, Hamisi Tambwe and Yusuf Mhilu and rested Akilimali Baruan, Mahadhi Juma and Simon Matheo. However, this didn't change the visitors' attacking pattern as the home boys sustained their attacking machine. Four minutes into second half, Kakamega Homeboyz's roving striker Moses Mudavadi's grass cutter was gathered by goalkeeper Youthe. In the 55th minute, Mudavadi rolled with ball inside the opponent's wobbling defence, but his slicing shot was cleverly saved by the overworked Youthe, who had a busy afternoon between the posts. With only a minute before the Ethiopian referee ended the tie, Estone Esiye's powerful header went over the crossbar. Coach Nkata was the most delighted person after the match and expressed his joy after the result. “ I knew if I contained the opponents and we don't concede a goal in the opening 15 minutes, I would emerge the winners as I played them in January in the Mapinduzi Cup while guiding Uganda Revenue Authority as a coach and I know their weakness,” said an elated Nkata. Coach Mwandila conceded defeat and said he was disappointed by the performance of his boys. “ I am so sad. The boys didn't raise to the occasion and I greatly missed seven of my regular stars in this match,” said Mwandila, who is a former Zambian international. He said he will now work hard ahead of their Caf Confederation Cup match against Gor Mahia to rectify the mistakes.  