Zanzibar champions Jeshi la Kujenga Uchumi (JKU) head coach Hassan Ramadhan Hamisi has fired warning shots to their opponents ahead of the SportPesa Super Cup which kicks off at Afraha Stadium, Nakuru on Sunday. JKU tackle defending champions Gor Mahia in the quarter-finals of the knockout competition tomorrow but Hamisi is unfazed by the hosts. “We have not come to Nakuru to watch Flamingos at Lake Nakuru. We have come to win the SportPesa Super Cup and return home with Sh3 million and book a ticket to play English Premier League side Everton at Goodison Par next month,” a buoyant Ramadhan told Nation Sport on Friday after their training session at Nakuru Athletics Club. “We know Gor Mahia are the defending champions but that is a story for last year and we are now telling them that JKU is no pushover and they should expect a tough battle come Sunday.” Ramadhan, 45, who has been at the helm for the past one year, said that despite the fact that they are facing the Kenyan champions for the first time and his charges are fasting, they are ready for the battle. 'WE WILL BEAT GOR' The JKU head coach exuded confidence that they will beat Gor Mahia and earn the ticket for the historic trip to play Everton at their Goodison Park backyard. Twenty-year-old Amour Pwina and winger Festus Salum Abdalla will lead JKU’s attack in the eight-team tournament while the experience of national team players that include goalkeeper Mohamed Abdulrahman and defender Said Ali Mwalala will be needed. Meanwhile, Kariobangi Sharks captain Eric Juma said that his side was equally prepared for their maiden appearance in the tournament. “It is good exposure to play foreign teams like Yanga and Simba SC as it will help us to grow as a team,” said Juma. Sharks, short-handed for the tournament as four of their players are with the national team in India for the International hero Cup, will begin their quest for the title against Tanzania champions Simba on Monday. The Sharks players who are with Harambee Stars in India are Patillah Omoto, Bolton Omwenga, Vincent Wasambo and Ovella Ochieng. “They are part of our main players but the squad we have is equal to the task,” said Juma. Simba will be training at Rift Valley Sports Club alongside Kakamega Homeboyz. The Kakamega-based side take on Young Africans of Tanzania on Sunday in the tournament’s opening match. AFC Leopards, Gor Mahia and Singida United will be training at Egerton University main campus in Njoro while Young Africans and Sharks will be training at Nakuru ASK showground. FIXTURES Sunday: Kakamega Homeboyz v Yanga Gor Mahia v JKU Monday: Kariobangi Sharks v Simba Tuesday: AFC Leopards v Singida United  