Deputy President William Ruto on Wednesday said he was ready for a lifestyle audit to quell rumours regarding what he owns and the source of his wealth as the war on graft heightens. Mr Ruto was speaking at the annual secondary school headteachers’ conference in Mombasa to break his silence following a challenge by ODM leader Raila Odinga that he account for his wealth and the money he dishes out everywhere he goes. “William Ruto will be among the first to submit himself for a lifestyle audit. I can see the media already has done some work on me. I was expecting that the next day they would focus on someone else but it looks like it stopped on me. I thought the lifestyle audit was meant for everybody,” said Mr Ruto. The DP said the audit would end “what's going on in the rumour mill and half-truths.” SCRUTINISED He said that when the process begins, he will be among the first to be scrutinised. There has been speculation over Mr Ruto’s perceived increased wealth since he became Deputy President because he is associated with various properties. READ: Uhuru pulls out all the stops in unprecedented war on graft READ: All Public officers to undergo lifestyle audit: Uhuru The money he has dished out in many places has also led to a lot of speculation. But on Wednesday, he said the audit will set the record straight. Speaking in Mombasa last Thursday, President Kenyatta said the government will do a lifestyle audit of all public officers. President Kenyatta said he will lead by example by being the first to be audited in the exercise that will start soon after his order on publishing of details of tenders starts. “Just after this exercise starts next month, we will start with lifestyle audits. I will lead from the front because I am the number one, followed by Mr Ruto, then the governors and the CSs. I swear to you that the theft of public funds will come to an end. Yes, it will,” he promised. SMOKED OUT He said all those who hiding behind their wives and children will be smoked out during the audit. “Those found culpable will go where they belong, and that is to prison. We will, and it is a must, to protect public resources and that is the way to go,” he said. Speaking in Mombasa on Sunday and Monday, Mr Odinga also said he was ready for a lifestyle audit, adding that the State should enjoin external agencies and experts for it to succeed. He said ODM backed the scrutiny of public servants and vetting of procurement officers which, he said, was pioneered by the Narc government in 2003. Mr Odinga also took issue with Mr Ruto’s dishing out of money on various occasions. “You go around giving out money here and there and we know your salary,” said Mr Odinga. PUBLIC MONEY The ODM leader said looters of public money were known and “you will know from how they operate and their face”. However, some of Mr Ruto’s allies have taken issue with the order for lifestyle audit, saying it targets the DP. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka also waded into the debate, saying President Kenyatta’s directive will only succeed if it is backed by legislative action. WAR AGAINST GRAFT Mr Musyoka said that although he fully supports the war against graft, that fight must move beyond statements of intent to the “realm of action consistent with the law”. This should be done by both Houses of Parliament which should establish a legal framework to guide the process of the lifestyle audit. That way, proper legislation will ensure no one escapes the scrutiny, including the President, his Deputy or any other top public and state officers. “Jubilee administration must capture the mood of Kenyans and Parliament legislate immediately the necessary enabling structures that are going to help people get scrutinised," Mr Musyoka said.   Party urges State to involve external agencies in the war against corruption.