Turkana County residents and leaders have raised an alarm over desert locusts that have invaded their farms. Parts of Turkana East sub-sounty that border Samburu, Baringo and West Pokot counties are swarmed by the voracious insects. The worst hit villages include, Elelea, Morulem and Kangitit. The insects are spreading fast to the neighbouring villages of Katilia, Napeitom and Lokori. ATTACKED VEGETATION In Elelea village yesterday, the buzzing of the insects could be heard as the swarms attacked vegetation. Residents now stare at another round of hunger despite the rains that have been pounding the region and have asked for support from the national and county governments. “We rejoiced when the rains came so everybody planted maize, sorghum, vegetables and other crops,” Elelea resident Aipa Epem told the Nation. “Other villagers restocked their  livestock since they had lost many animals during the drought. Now the locusts are destroying everything.” Ms Epem said the village and the surrounding ones would rely heavily on relief food for months to come if the locusts are not controlled. Mr Dennis Emuron, another resident, said the insects have destroyed his sorghum, maize, pasture and trees. MULTIPLYING FAST “The locusts have eaten all our sukuma wiki, mung beans and cow peas. They invaded farms as soon as we finished weeding last month,” Mr Emuron said. He added that goats develop diarrhoea and die when they accidentally eat the locusts. “We ask the authorities to address the problem before it gets out of hand. The insects are multiplying fast,” he added. In 2013, locusts destroyed crops under irrigation and pasture in several parts of Turkana County. Turkana North, Loima and Kibish sub-counties were the most hit then and the National Crop Protection Unit spent Sh50 million on aerial spraying that took 109 days. SH300 MILLION County Disaster Management executive Charles Lokioto urged agriculture field officers to map out areas invaded by the insects. Mr Lokioto said food crops at Morulem irrigation scheme were in danger of being destroyed by the swarms. “Besides locusts, farms in Turkana East Sub-County have also been invaded by the fall army worm. Residents face hunger if these pests are not destroyed now,” he said. Meanwhile the government has set aside Sh300 million to fight pests in various parts of the country, Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri has said. Speaking at the Meru National fair on Friday, Mr Kiunjuri said the war on pests would ensure the government achieves its food and nutrition security agenda. WATER PANS “The Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation has committed the amount to stop the spread of the army worm through training and the purchase of pesticides and equipment,” the CS said. He added that the pest poses a big threat to food security and livelihoods. “I want to reiterate the government’s commitment to spearhead support and coordinate efforts that will ensure the threat is brought under control,” he said after opening the fair. Mr Kiunjuri added that his ministry would provide household-based water pans to ensure small-scale farmers move away from rain-fed agriculture. “We will put 700,000 additional acres under maize, potato, rice, cotton, aquaculture and feeds production through the public-private partnership,” the cabinet secretary added. He said the government would ensure 100 per cent nutrition security is achieved in five years. SUBSIDISED FERTILISER “This is in line with the Sustainable Development Goal number two which advocates for hunger eradication, food security, improved nutrition and promotion of sustainable agriculture,” Mr Kiunjuri added. The minister said the ministry is finalising the Agriculture Sector Transformation and Growth Strategy major interventions to drive the 100 per cent food and nutrition security agenda. “We will ensure this by increasing small-scale farmer incomes, agricultural output, value-addition and protecting households against shocks,” he said. The CS added that agriculture will continue to be a key provider of nutritious food for a healthy growing population and raw materials for industrial production. “The government will support farmers to access subsidised fertiliser, quality seeds, machines and equipment,” he said.   The insects are spreading fast to the neighbouring villages of Katilia, Napeitom and Lokori.