Politicians Moses Wetang’ula and Musalia Mudavadi this weekend embarked on a drive to popularise their parties in opposition leader Raila Odinga’s backyard. Mr Wetangula of Ford Kenya was in Nyamira while some officials of Mr Mudavadi’s Amani National Congress (ANC) party were in Bondo. Speaking on Sunday at a hotel in Bondo where they met with their supporters, ANC Women League officials said the party has launched a countrywide recruitment to strengthen itself at the grass root level ahead of 2022 presidential race. “We want to bring everybody on board and that is why getting to the grass roots to ensure a win for party’s presidential candidate Mudavadi,” said Ms Agnes Baraza, chairperson Kakamega County’s women league. The party performed poorly in the last General Election, especially in Nyanza where the Orange Democratic Movement clinched almost all the seats. The party intends to hit the ground in every ward to make sure that they clinch more seats in the county assemblies in 2022 General Election, especially for women. This comes a day after the party said it is open to new partnerships ahead of the next General Election. The women leaders, however, distanced themselves from statement by the party’s secretary general, Barack Muluka, that the National Super Alliance (Nasa) is dead. “Nasa was the brainchild of Mr Mudavadi. Withdrawal from the coalition can only be equated to a man walking away from his own home,” said Ms Sylvia Muteshi. FORD KENYA Nasa’s affiliate party Ford Kenya led has also started a countrywide tour aimed at strengthening the outfit with Mr Wetang'ula planning to open offices in all 47 counties. Mr Wetang’ula kicked off the popularisation drive in Nyamira County on Friday and Saturday where he met party delegates. The senator held closed-door meetings in which he outlined his agenda to the residents. Nasa’s pulling apart followed the mock ‘swearing-in’ of Mr Odinga in January and the historical handshake between the opposition leader and President Uhuru Kenyatta in March. Mr Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Mr Mudavadi and Mr Wetangula felt betrayed by Mr Odinga after the opposition leader met Mr Kenyatta without their informing them.   One side says the prayer is a ‘ritual exercise’ while the other deliberately skipped.