Detectives on Thursday extended investigations to West Kenya Sugar factory in Kakamega County after seizing 59,000 bags of sugar suspected to have been illegally imported. The officers from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and officials of the Kenya Bureau of Standards were locked in a meeting with the firm's management for the better part of the afternoon. The head of Flying Squad Unit Musa Yego is leading the investigations. He told journalists that the sugar was seized in a warehouse in Webuye town. NORMAL OPERATION “This is just a normal operation of non-consumable sugar and we have not yet completed our investigations. So we are requesting you to hold on until Monday when we are going to divulge more information about the progress of the investigations,” said Mr Yego. He said the investigations were still in the initial stage and it would be premature to divulge information on matter. Earlier, security guards at the factory had blocked journalists from entering the premises. Mr Yego said the police officers had been deployed at the warehouse to guard the seized sugar as investigations progressed. The operations came in the wake of another in which police seized over 2,000 bags of contraband sugar in a warehouse in Eastleigh, Nairobi. The 2,000 bags of brown sugar packed in 50kg bags were piled in the warehouse in Eastleigh Section Three. Mr Yego said they seized the sugar imported from Brazil after being alerted by members of the public. UNSCRUPULOUS TRADERS The sugar, Mr Yego said, was to be transported to Mumias and Kabras sugar factories for refining but ended up in the hands of unscrupulous traders who have been selling it to unsuspecting members of the public. Mr Yego identified suspected traders behind the illegal business as three Kenyans of Somali origin. “As you can see the sugar is branded not fit for direct human consumption but these traders have been repackaging it and selling to unsuspecting members of the public,” said Mr Yego. He said that the police also impounded cans of cooking oil, also not fit for consumption. The Flying Squad Unit boss said that three suspects, who have been operating the illegal business, will be arraigned in court.  