Two male teachers in Kisii County are on the run after they were allegedly found in a lodging with pupils. The two were said to have been found in “a compromising situation” with the minors in two separate rooms. Education officials in the county said the two had taken the pupils out for sports competitions and were on their way back home when they lured the minors to the bar. “We are on their trails and soon they will be custody,” Nyamache OCPD Japhet Mwirichia told the Nation by phone. The school’s headteacher said the girls were part of the larger team that had gone to represent their school in the competition. “I had entrusted them, being elderly, to take the pupils to participate in the games and bring them safely back home only to be notified that they have been found in a lodging,” the headteacher said, adding that the case has since been taken over by police and the education office. ON THE RUN The two teachers have not reported to duty since the incident. “They have not been seen and none of them has reported to school,” he said. Witnesses said the teachers, in the company of the pupils, entered the bar at 7pm and requested access to the rooms. Some customers who saw them protest to the management who upon checking the rooms found the teachers with the minors. The incident also attracted the attention of other patrons who kicked out the teachers and rescued the girls. By the time the police responded, the two had already escaped, leaving the pupils behind, a shopkeeper who witnessed the incident told the Nation. NAKED “They were found naked and only had towels on them when they were forced out of the room. However, they quickly ran out and escaped,” the shopkeeper said. Education officials said the teachers have since been interdicted even as they warned of stern action against sex pests. “We have already blacklisted their names and once they are arrested they will face the law,” said Mr William Sugut, the county Education director. “They is no shortcut for any teacher who breaches the professional code,” he warned. OCPD Mwirichia said a manhunt for the teachers had begun.  