The family of a 29-year-old Nyandarua man who wrote a heart-rending post on Facebook before ending his life less than 24 hours later is yet to establish what drove their son to commit suicide. On Monday, when Nation visited Gerald Mwangi’s home in Ngano village, Ol Jooro Orok constituency, a sombre mood was palpable, as friends and and relatives gathered in the compound to console the family. Overwhelmed relatives and friends sobbed uncontrollably as majority were yet to come to terms with the death of Mwangi, an actor cum photographer. In an interview, Mr Mwangi’s mother, Mirriam Ngima, revealed her son had separated with his wife. “Early on February my son had a problem with his wife whom they had a son together leading to their separation. STARTED ACTING The wife relocated to Kiambu from Ngano and four months later my son moved to Kinoo where he started acting. He rented another house as they still had differences,” she said. On the morning of June 20, Mwangi to have travelled to see his wife in Kigumo, Kiambu. Ms Ngima said his son had gone there to see his son. She said before her son committed suicide, he had sent her a text message on the night of June 20, telling her goodbye. “I had sent him Sh400 which he had requested. I wondered why he was telling me goodbye. I decided to call him to enquire where he was going but his phone had been switched off,” she said. She received a call from his son’s wife the following morning informing her that Mwangi’s body had been found in a bush near his wife’s house in Kigumo. She then decided to travel to Kiambu. STRANGULATION “I later learnt from his wife that he had visited her workplace and demanded to see their three-year-old son but she didn’t let him see the child on suspicion that he could harm him,” Ms Ngima told Nation. According to the mother, her son’s body had strangulations and it appeared had used a Maasai Shuka to commit suicide. She noted that her son’s body was later removed by police and taken to the nearby Kigumo funeral home. They then proceeded to Kigumo Police Station. “At Kigumo police station I was told that I was required to pay a fee of Sh 14, 000 for a postmortem examination to be conducted on my son’s body. I could not afford the fee since I am a peasant farmer. After explaining it to them, I was allowed to transfer my son’s body to Nyahururu County Referral Hospital mortuary,” she added. JOVIAL The mother of two, who described her son as a jovial person. “Only God knows what made my son’s to commit suicide.” Mr Titus Njoroge, Mwangi’s younger brother, also described his brother as a cheerful person who always spoke out his mind whenever he had an issue. “He was a jolly man and loved everybody. We used to chat with him freely when he was at home. We liked him so much because he made everyone laugh,” he said. Ms Sarah Wanja, the deceased's aunt added: "We still don't know what happened to our son and why he refused to share with us what he was going through.”   Gerald Mwangi’s friend and relatives describe him as a jovial man