When Kelly Banda,31, started Epitome Models in Kilifi Town in 2009, modelling as a profession was relatively foreign. However, this unfamiliarity did not deter the budding entrepreneur. He dove right into the unchartered waters of the fashion industry. Eight years down the line, he is glad he took that bold step. “At Epitome, we audition models and link them with our clients who wish to feature the models in promoting their brand, releasing promotional content for their target audience and so forth. We also nurture talent by supporting the upcoming models such those we discover in fashion shows,” Kelly says. THE BREAKTHROUGH Epitome Models was selected to organise the 2013/2014 Miss Tourism Kilifi Beauty Pageant. This was his first major event and Kelly was very excited. Auditioning and training models for the pageant was quite engaging. His efforts paid off as the fashion event was a huge success. Following that event, he started getting proposals to handle similar events such as the 2014/2015 Miss Kilifi Town beauty pageant and in the same year, Miss Environment Kilifi. His business was booming. “These successful events made me realise that Kilifi was now ready for the fashion industry. I seized the moment and grew my business. I started diversifying from fashion events to corporate occasions. For example, my models formed the welcoming team during an event in Watamu last year, earning the company Sh38,000 that night. The industry has evidently grown over the years.”    This was a fete in a growing industry for Kelly, who holds a law degree from Kampala International University and a diploma in public relations from the University of Eastern Africa, Baraton. “I usually get around Sh100,000 on a good month, especially during holidays when we have several festive events. GROWING THE BUSINESS Currently, Banda has 18 models – seven male and eleven female. They are aged 18-23 years. Apart from modelling for events and clients, they are also featured in Epitome’s photoshoots that aim at promoting the beauty of Kilifi County. Some of the shoots were done on the newly tarmacked St Thomas-Prison road, the Serene beaches of Mtwapa, Kilifi Bay, and Baobab. Kelly is currently working on a programme to promote ‘Kishutu’, a traditional cloth that has been gaining popularity in the county. “I want to start a ‘Kishutu’ event that will be held annually to popularise traditional attire particularly among the youths.”    Kelly wishes he could get more support from the county government, which he feels has the power to catalyse the growth of the fashion industry in the county. “The models can help market Kilifi County nationwide and beyond. Government’s endorsement of this profession would help in changing the attitude of the community towards modelling. “Parents would be more supportive of children who decide to get into the industry instead of rebuking them, as some parents have done.” He plans to grow Epitome to an international brand and hopes to work with icons such as Lupita Nyong’o and Ajuma Nasenyana.   From a young age, Shaun Bukusi always wanted to be an entrepreneur.