Kisii, Nyamira farmers learn best farming practices Hundreds of farmers from Kisii and Nyamira attended the annual agriculture field day at the Kisii Agriculture Training Centre for tips on farming. Most of the farmers said they had been farming for the sake of it, but the lessons would help them grow crops or keep animals as an agribusiness. The event focused on modern and innovative agricultural technologies to put money in farmers’ pockets. Cleophas Obwogi, a farmer from Bogeka in Kitutu Chache South, said he farms on quarter-acre and was determined to utilise the space for high yields. He grows strawberries on small-scale. “I have learnt how to take care of my berries by ensuring best farming practices. Also, farm hygiene is crucial in preventing diseases and pests,” he said. Farmers also took their soils for testing. This is important because they now know what nutrients are lacking in them. “The test has shown the soil on my farm is acidic. I have to apply lime now,” said Ms Mary Kwamboka from Nyamira. The event was organised by the Department of Agriculture in the county and various agriculture stakeholders including agro-dealers, finance institutions and researchers. Agriculture Executive Esman Nyandikah said the event will help instill best practices that raise productivity. Agriculture Training Centre principal Doris Mwacha called on farmers to visit the centre more often even when there are no field days so as to learn more. -Ruth Mbula and Benson Ayienda. **** New cassava technology boosts seeds multiplication Scientists from the Kenya Agricultural Livestock and Research Organisation (Kalro) have developed a new cassava seedlings technology to enable farmers get quality planting materials. Agriculture and Food Authority (Afa) trained farmers in Kilifi recently on the technology to curb food insecurity. The technology known as rapid multiplication of cassava through minisetts was developed September last year. It is aimed at curbing food insecurity, creating jobs through value addition and earn income for farmers. Through the technology, the drought resistant crop takes three to four months to mature, and produces more yields compared to other varieties. According to scientists the technology is appropriate as it ensures farmers have enough planting materials in a short span. “There was a shortage of cassava planting material due to prolonged drought periods. We focused on technology to find a solution to the shortage. The technology has a multiplier effect,” Afa technical and advisory services manager Peter Mwangi said. Minisetts technology is suitable in Coast region since the Tajirika cassava variety was made for the coastal weather, soil and climatic conditions. “We are changing from conventional farming to use of technology due to a serious shortage of cassava cuttings to enable farmers have more planting materials in a short period. Instead of having five conventional materials, you can now have 60 out of just one stem. It also saves on costs of the materials,” Mr Mwangi explained. But unlike the local variety known as Kabandameno which can **** Farm clinic heads to Kirinyaga Seeds of Gold will hold its farm clinic in Kirinyaga County on July 13 and 14. The event will be held in collaboration with Elgon Kenya Ltd, Egerton University, Simba Corp, Coopers Kenya Ltd, Bayer East Africa and Kirinyaga University, among others. The two-day event that will be held at Kirinyaga Univerisity is themed empowering the youth and women through innovation and ICT for sustainable agribusiness models. Day one of the clinic will feature teachings on dairy farming, breeding and nutrition, agribusiness funding, agro inputs and production material, question and answer sessions, and exhibitions and direct engagements between farmers and the experts. The second day of the event, will feature trainings on postharvest management and farm waste reduction, mechanisation and transport, organic farming, exhibitions and farmer engagements. Previous farm clinics have been held in Thika, Njoro, Kitale, Meru, Nyahururu and Kisii. The clinics have gained traction as a one-stop shop where farmers, who are food producers, actively engage and hence boost the cause of making the country food secure. –Brian Okinda   I have narrated before my struggles when trying to get market for my poultry products without going through unscrupulous middlemen.