Samia Joan’s acting career was blossoming when the birth of her daughter saw her change career course. She speaks to Rachel Wambui about her journey. “My daughter was born with cerebral palsy,” 33-year-old Samia Joan says. “After that nothing quite sat right with me. My biggest challenge was accepting the condition. I felt sad for both of us. I became withdrawn. I felt that the more I let people in, the more I would have to explain.” Back then, Samia was an actress of seven years’ standing, garnering roles in the popular TV shows Makutano Junction and Tahidi High. She had pursued this career since college where she had started in theatre plays. It would take her about a year to get out of that fog, which she points out is a long time to be absent in the TV industry. “To get jobs, you need to be seen constantly. Makutano was still running, but I was getting less episodes.” To make ends meet, she took a job as a waitress. “I lasted for only two months!” she laughs. “I used to stand at this spot in the restaurant and watch the guys behind the bar and I just loved the way they moved. It was like watching a show. Behind the bar, they were allowed to create. There, I could be me; I could be an artist.” Today, Samia is one of Nairobi’s most popular mixologists, although she refers to herself as a bartender. “I feel that people abuse the title mixologist by according it to anyone who can mix a cocktail. Mixology is an art. It is creating an experience with a spirit.” On inquiring what it would take to train as a bartender, she says she got the feeling the restaurant management didn’t think she fitted ‘the look’. “There is a perception of what a woman behind the bar is supposed to look like,” she explains. “First, I am not a make-up person. Secondly I am too petite – I didn’t have enough ‘presence’.” It took some convincing and six months of coaching before she became a bartender. First among her challenges was that she was getting paid less than the male staff, yet doing more and better in order to prove herself. After two and half years of trying to negotiate the gender pay-gap, she left for a job in a five-star hotel. “That job became routine. Unlike a restaurant, in a hotel you don’t have the liberty to experiment with recipes. This kills your creativity.” She eventually went back to the restaurant she had left, this time as the overall bar manager of 12 outlets. “They hadn’t wanted me to leave anyway so they were happy to take me back,” she smiles. Then she entered the World Class Bartending Competition, a clash of master mixers from around the world. “You think you are a superstar in Kenya but then you see what others are doing and you realise you have a lot to learn. It also gave me so much exposure, especially after CNN covered me in their African Voices segment.” She emerged from that competition as the World-Class bartender of the year (Kenya) and was also the first African female to contest.  An education on cocktails Samia gets noticeably passionate when talking about the cocktail culture in Kenya. “My goal right now is to educate local customers. You will understand why one cocktail costs more than the other by understanding what ingredients and process has gone into making it.” Even with her current mastery, Samia says the idea of a female bartender still doesn’t sit well with some people. “It’s the impression that you are out there dealing with men and alcohol, that you have to dress indecently and the like. I feel like I get challenged often; do you know how to do this or that, questions that the male bartenders are not asked.” Being a single mother to a special needs child has also come with its challenges. She tells of this time she was having trouble making it to early morning school meetings. “I told them I struggle because I work at night. Eyebrows were raised so I added, ‘No, not that kind of ‘working at night’, I am a bartender’. That didn’t make it better,” she laughs. “I still have some parents who whisper, ‘you don’t want to find anything else to do?’ And I am like, no, this is my passion. As much as I have a special need child, it doesn’t mean I have to kill my dreams. There is still me and there is her. If I change my career to suit her I will end up resenting myself or not living to my full. Besides, she needs to be provided for and this is the way I do it.”   