It has been a rather quiet week for Gor Mahia. They had a routine midweek win over Sony Sugar in Kisumu to extend their lead at the top of the SportPesa Premier League. This came after another win over Coast side Assad in the SportPesa Shield which basically means K’Ogalo is in line for two main titles. We also remain contenders for continental glory going by our performance so far in the Caf Confederation Cup where we have collected two points and lie second in our group. Much attention in the coming weeks will shift to the World Cup in Russia where of course I will be rooting for the African teams and praying at least for once we have our very own playing in the final. But while the world will be glued on the events in Russia, where we as Nation Media Group are ably represented by James Mwamba, back home the transfer window is open and teams will be out to reinforce their squads. Having watched Gor Mahia in the first half of the season, I think coach Dylan Kerr has the right arsenal to go all the way and maintain our dominance in the local scene. You look at our goalkeeping department,  Boniface Oluoch still has  the safest pair of hands in the country though I also do feel he needs some competition for the gloves for him to remain hawk-eyed between the posts. Our defence has been the best over the last five years, I am looking forward for the return of Karim Nzigiyimana and Wellington Ochieng. It would have been great to have back Erick “Marcello” Ouma on the left so that Godfrey Walusimbi can be pushed to the midfield role that he played perfectly last season. The midfield is not bad either, Ernest Wendo is doing his job well covering the defence while Humphrey Mieno, Francis Kahata Wa Nyambura and George Odhiambo “Blackberry” have been a marvel to watch, but it would be my prayer if somebody would bring back Kenneth Muguna. Muguna had a great season with the club last year before moving to Albania. With news that the club is not paying them and Musa Mohammed having quit, I think Muguna should also pack his bags and return home to K’Ogalo. This is where you belong Muguna. A partnership between Mieno, Muguna and Kahata will be awesome. On  to  the striking and this is where we have a big problem. Jacques Tuyisenge and Meddie Kagere have done their bit so far. Ephraim Guikan is slowly catching up though he will need to pull up his socks. Kerr will probably have to find the right strategy for the trio to play together or go out there and get a fox in the box. Having watched Guikan especially against Hull City and later against USM Alger, I have this feeling he is still not fully settled at Gor Mahia or he is not the best striking partner to Tuyisinge and/or Kagere which is why I am saying we get an extra striker who can be ruthless in front of goal like Dan Sserunkuma and Michael Olunga. It will be interesting to see which players the office will want to bring on board considering we have won matches with what we can refer to as team B.  