Simon Thuo started his music career in 2015 by forming a Nakuru-based band. But getting the right members for his band was a big challenge and every candidate he came across did not satisfy his expectations. Mr Thuo sensed an opportunity to start a music school to reduce challenges budding upcoming musicians in realising their potential. During the recruiting process, most of the candidates were “below par and did not appreciate the process of making music”. He partnered with Nakuru Players Theatre and received approvals from the Nakuru County Government’s department of culture. This saw Thuo launch SimorMusic brand and acquired a space at the theatre where he runs classes for aspiring musicians preparing them on how to prepare music for the market. Thuo earns between Sh20,000 and 50,000 per month. He has in the past year been receiving 20 students a month attending basic, intermediate and advanced level. “During the school holidays , we to make a profit of up to Sh75, 000.” Thuo has since hired two assistants who helps him in training on some of the instruments. He added that the training is aimed at helping musicians get a product that they own rather than waiting for studio operators to prepare tunes and accompanying instruments. A GENERATION THAT APPRECIATES MUSIC “Creating an understanding among upcoming musicians will create a generation that appreciates music.” According to Mr Thuo, little knowledge on the process is one of the factors that have led to little or no appreciation for the locally produced music. Mr Thuo's lessons include vocals and mastery of instruments like guitar, drums and the keyboard. “When you get to a studio, a producer will not turn you away but will go ahead and work on your music not paying attention to the fine details such as the quality and how long the music is likely to remain relevant in the market .” He also has a band, Simor Live Entertainment, which performs across the country. Some of his former students are now part of his music band. He however noted there are still very few women willing to learn the instruments, especially drumming. His dream is to create a generation that appreciates the process of music making and who can create better music than what we currently have in Kenya.    Simon Thuo started his music career in 2015