In this interactive series, we invite our readers to send in questions to selected public figures. Answers will be published in the next print and online editions. This week, Tharaka-Nithi Governor Muthomi Njuki responds to your questions 1. For some time now, there has been disquiet among politicians, including governors and senators, on the formula used by the Commission on Revenue Allocation (CRA) to disburse financial resources to counties. Many argue that the theme “No taxation without representation” is not adhered to. Some politicians lament that this is a time-bomb if not addressed. As a first-time governor, what is your take and which additional parameters would you want CRA to incorporate in the formula for sharing revenue? Komen Moris, Eldoret The formula for revenue allocation should be changed as it borders more on allocation by surface and not by number of people in the county. The 2009 census on which the formula was born is still contested. 2. Why did your administration sack nurses hired on contract terms by your predecessor Samuel Ragwa? Don’t you feel your administration erred by not absorbing them on permanent terms despite the county having a shortage? Andrew Maranga Ratemo, Malindi This assertion is not true. They were on contract which had ended. We asked the nurses to re-apply for their jobs so that we follow due process. Eighty out of the 96 whose contracts ended have been rehired and redeployed. 3. Sir, are you aware that there has been no learning going on at Nthambo Primary School, particularly in Standard One to Three, during this rainy season because the roofs of the classrooms are leaking? Stanley Murungi, Kiracha Market, Tharaka Nithi County This matter has not been brought to my attention yet but if so, I will liaise with the area MP so as to avail resources for repairs not only for Nthambo Primary School but schools in the county especially now that rains are over. 4. Regarding Kiracha-Kiamuriuki road which you promised to put murram, it has become impassable. Are the plans to rehabilitate it still there? Stanley Murungi, Kiracha Market Tharaka Nithi County It is not just the Kiracha–Kiamuriuki road but my administration is looking at the damage caused by the rains that have just ended and we will rehabilitate roads that were not originally in the budget and allocate funds in the next financial year. 5. Like the wider Meru locality, Tharaka Nithi prefers to vote as a block. Are we likely to see history repeating itself come the 2022 General Election when the mountain region may not present a leading presidential candidate? Francis Njuguna, Kibichoi The interests of our people will determine the direction we will take in 2022. We are hoping that those who will be gunning in 2022 will engage us as Mt Kenya East and chart the future forward but we hope that person will still be in Jubilee. 6. You are one of the most vocal political leaders who are against a referendum because as you allege, it is meant to serve a few individuals. Would you however support the one whose objective is to reduce the number of elected leaders for the benefit of the ordinary citizens who are currently forced to bear heavy financial burden to sustain the hundreds of MPs, MCAs and governors? Solomon Gatobu, Maua A referendum is costly and doing it now, just after the recent elections, is overburdening the taxpayer. I do not have a problem with this question being put through a referendum that will be part of the 2022 elections. 7. The three governors of Embu, Tharaka Nithi and Meru have been accused of having diverted the money that was meant for miraa farmers and directing some of it to fruit farming. As the current governor, what are you doing about it? When will miraa farmers start receiving the money from the national government? Solomon Gatobu, Maua Miraa is in negligible quantities in Tharaka Nithi County and not commercially viable. For allegations to emerge that as governors we sat and discussed this matter is untrue. 8. During 2017 elections, Prof Kithure Kindiki, Patrick ‘Parto’ Munene and you promised that upon your election, your first priority would be to tarmac Kangoro-Rubate-Matis road. When will this commence? Murithi Musa, Chuka, Tharaka Nithi The Kangoro–Rubate–Matis road is still a priority but my administration is first constructing roads that were on course when we came into office. 9. Majority of Kenyans believe that one of the things that was properly devolved is corruption. In reference to your county how true is this assertion? Bernard Nyang’ondi, Mombasa I have affirmed my resolve to fight this evil that is threatening to tear the country apart and by extension the counties. In Tharaka-Nithi County, I have an open door policy where I call on residents to report cases of corruption from my staff. I have made sure that my senior staff have signed the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission Code of Conduct as a guiding factor for their performance. 10. As a youth I would like to find from you what plans you have for sports? Also, what update do you have concerning Kirubia Stadium is concerned?  Dennis Munene, Chuka The youth are our bedrock and we have set out in this budget and the next financial year. So far, there are ongoing works at Kathwana and Marimanti stadiums. We will also be starting the works on Kairuni Stadium. With regards to Kirubia Stadium, we have set aside money in the budget to finish it  this financial year as it was one of the stadiums mentioned by the Jubilee administration as a flagship project. 11.There were suggestions by elites from your county on changing county name from Tharaka-Nithi to Meru South. What is your take and what impacts will it have on your people of Tharaka Nithi? Ntongai Igweta, Meru I have no issues with the name of the county. This matter has continued to polarise our people and this endless debate over the name of the county is a non-issue. We are one people and names don’t define us, ideas do. After all, a name does not stop a child from growing. 12. What is your view on boundary dispute between your county and Meru County around Keeria Market? Ntongai Igweta, Meru We have never been at loggerheads with Meru County. What is important is that our people are getting services. If there would be a dispute, which I do not see, I would gladly sit down with Governor Kiraitu Murungi to resolve it. 13. The construction of the only road linking county headquarters (Kathwana) and Chuka town is past the schedule.  What is your administration doing to ensure that the project is completed within the shortest time possible now that the completion was to be in March 2018? Nathan Muthamia, Chuka The road’s construction is on course since we changed the design from being hand constructed to machine constructed. KERRA is following up the matter keenly. 14. You have been in office for around eight months now. What have you achieved so far as Tharaka Nithi governor? Which major projects have you initiated? Murithi Ramires, Maua My administration has put the health sector back on track. We have revived it and now the number of people accessing services in our hospitals has increased, as they are not travelling to neighbouring counties. Our health staff have also been paid all their dues up to date. 15.Your people have been uprooting their coffee citing poor prices, while those in the neighbouring Meru County are reaping profits from the crop. How do you convince the people of Tharaka Nithi of your visionary leadership? Robert Mugambi Mutegi, Nairobi We are on the road to full recovery with coffee in the county. To this end, we have set aside about Sh10 million and brought in a director in charge of cooperatives. Agriculture is one of my priority areas.  