Kanu has initiated discussions with Mr Raila Odinga’s Orange Democratic Movement party to consider the possibility of forming an alliance ahead of the 2022 General Election. Other parties the independence party is eyeing are Wiper Democratic Party, Amani National Congress, as well as some Jubilee MPs. “We are in deep discussions with ODM, Wiper, ANC and a section of the Jubilee Party that will not be fielding a presidential candidate in 2022,” Tiaty MP William Kamket said on Tuesday. He was addressing a Kanu branch officials meeting in Nairobi to assess operations of its branches and to plan  its activities as it rebrands in preparation for 2022. STRUCTURED CONVERSATIONS “We are having structured conversations with like-minded political parties. The discussions are deep and they are going on. I want to assure Kanu supporters that the future is very bright,” he said. He noted that the party’s image had suffered after it failed to field a presidential candidate in the last three elections, adding that Mr Gideon Moi will be on the ballot in 2022. READ: Coast opposition leaders vow to back 2022 Ruto presidency READ: ANC: Kill Nasa to end its misery “Kanu has been a sleeping giant and this is the time to awaken it,” he said. A month ago, Kanu officials accompanied Mr Odinga to meet former President Daniel arap Moi. The younger Moi has also met Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho. Last weekend in Ukambani, Mr Kamket rooted for an alliance between Kanu and Mr Kalonzo Musyoka as well as Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu. ACHIEVE DREAM “We have to work with other leaders if we have to achieve our dream. The signs are good. We have thorough conversations and I can assure you they will reach somewhere because everything is pointing towards Kanu and Mr Gideon,” he said, while urging the delegates to start the process of rebranding the party in preparations for 2022. READ: Joho, Moi declare unity pact He told each of the Kanu delegates to take it upon themselves to begin the process of revitalizing their branches and promised that the younger Moi will be at hand to open such rebranded offices. This was revealed by Tiaty MP William Kamket on behalf of party Chairman Gideon Moi. He said Kanu is not interested in the Jubilee MPs controlled by Deputy President William Ruto because it will be hard to convince them to postpone their ambitions in favour of Kanu’s Mr  Moi.   Opposition has realised that Jubilee has been in campaign mode, so it is working to catch up.