The magistrate who sent former Nairobi Town Clerk John Gakuo and three other former public officials to prison for corruption is the same one handling the cases of the over 40 suspects in the National Youth Service scandal. Chief Magistrate Douglas Ogoti made news in May when he sent Gakuo and former Permanent Secretary Sammy Kirui to three years in prison for abuse of office over the loss of over Sh280 million meant for cemetery land in Nairobi. He also fined them Sh1 million each. The same Milimani Anti-Corruption court magistrate ordered a former Huduma Centre official to pay a fine of Sh500,000 after he found her guilty of receiving a bribe of Sh2,500 to facilitate the processing of a birth certificate for a parent. IN THE LINE OF FIRE Mr Ogoti directed that Ms Justinah Syonzua Malela, a former clerk at a Huduma Centre in Kibera, spend two years in prison if she fails to pay the fine. And now the tough-talking magistrate has been tasked with the trial of one of the biggest scandals in recent years — the loss of Sh468 million at the National Youth Service. Among the big names in the scandal are suspended Public Service Principal Secretary Lillian Omollo, former NYS Director-General Richard Ndubai and a host of public officials accused of conspiracy to defraud, abuse of office and false accounting among other charges. Among the suspects are David Kirui, Timothy Kiplagat Rotich and Ezekiel Osoro - who allegedly collected foodstuffs from the NYS stores and signed acceptance forms for goods that were never supplied in the first place. INVESTIGATIONSOthers are chief accountant Clement Murage, Michael Ojiambo the director, administration at the Ministry of Youth and Gender Affairs, Lucas Owino Otieno, the internal auditor at the National Treasury, all of whom were in the ministry’s verification committee and alleged approved payments to the companies that received hundreds of millions of shillings irregularly. A total of 22 individuals and five companies were in court on Tuesday and the accused persons sat for more than 10 hours as the charges were being read to them. Mr Ogoti also had to deal with some 17 suspects who failed to appear in court. He directed them to present themselves before the Directorate of Criminal Investigations by Thursday. BAIL APPLICATION They were held after showing up for “processing”. The magistrate, who directed that all the suspects be remanded, is set to deliver a ruling on their bail application on Tuesday next week. The suspects, through their lawyers, pleaded with the court to be freed on bond, arguing that it was their constitutional right. The prosecution on the other hand wanted them kept in custody as the investigators completed their investigations. On Thursday, Chief Justice David Maraga told President Uhuru Kenyatta that the Judiciary would cooperate in tackling corruption. “We know you have declared war against corruption, and I want to tell you, Mr President, we are with you. You can count on the Judiciary.” THE ACCUSED:   Diplomats welcome the action taken against the suspects in the scandal.