She landed one of the biggest roles in the Kenyan movie Disconnect after her first audition. Aseem Sharma is an Electrical Engineer both in Kenya and India and also trained in Power Yoga, which she teaches in group and private sessions.  Who is Aseem and where did she grow up? I’m a qualified engineer, trained yoga instructor and an upcoming model and actress. I grew up between India and Kenya.  You were in one of the biggest Kenyan movie productions, tell us how that came to be? I got a casting-call flyer on WhatsApp and it said “...director Tosh Gitonga of Nairobi Half Life”, and what came to my mind was how cool would it be to work with him. I wanted to audition but definitely felt a lack of confidence. After a push from my mum, I auditioned and thought I wouldn’t get it. Since I didn’t get a call-back in two weeks, I assumed that I didn’t make the cut. Months later, I got a call from my agent, telling me that I had gotten a call-back and Tosh would be there. I was excited but very nervous, I wasn’t sure whether I’d get it or not. As they say, the rest is history.  Was this your biggest role so far? Yes. This is my biggest role. Especially, working besides big names in the Kenyan entertainment industry.  Tell us which scene was the most exciting to film and the difficult one? I felt both in the bridal shower scene. When I read it in the script, I thought it was going to be fun with all the girls but it had a lot of sides to it, in terms of emotions. It was fun, educational and had jaw dropping twists. However, to shoot it, we were on set for almost 18 hours, racing against time as we had to do six scenes that make up the bridal shower, before the sun came up.  There is a scene that the girls invite an expert during Robin’s bridal shower which turned not to be what it was, was it difficult to watch it with your mum being in the audience? Oh God, don’t ask!! I had my mum on my right and my mentor who I truly love, adore and respect on my left. When the “therapist” started educating us, I did not dare look up at the screen or to my sides.  How was the experience acting and being directed by some of the biggest names in the industry? It was surreal. I cannot even believe that this actually happened to me. The best part about it was that everyone guided and supported me really well; it was my first movie.  Were you surprised by the popularity of the movie? Yes! I did have certain expectations but the response was definitely overwhelming.  Is acting your full time job, if not what else do you do? No. I train people from all walks of life with different physical abilities in Yoga, that’s my full time job.  What are you doing next, any offers after the movie? I really enjoyed acting in Disconnect and looking forward to new roles. I am also considering scriptwriting.  