I’m sure you flirted while you were dating. But once you got married that probably slowed right down. Or even stopped. Because most spouses are far too serious with one another. So however much you’re currently flirting with your spouse, it’s not enough. Because couples who flirt a lot feel far more connected and have much more fun. So be more playful! More messing around, more coy but meaningful glances, and more smiles, more touching, lots more laughter, and loads of sexy hints. Flirting also means paying each other more attention. Being physically and emotionally closer. And that always leads to more sex. So how often should you flirt with your spouse? All day and every day! OK, some days will be more flirty than others, but you should at least be in a flirty mood all the time. When and where? Morning, noon and night. In public and in private. The glance that’s just a moment too long. The shy smile. In front of your friends, family, and kids. Especially your kids. Seeing you flirting’s part of their education! Flirting in public’s fun, but flirting in private’s even more important, because it’s an affirmation of your love for each other, just between the two of you. How do you flirt with your spouse? Smile a lot. It’s contagious, and lights up your face. Accidentally bump into one another, and then use that as an excuse to touch, hug or kiss. Straighten her hair, slap his butt, hold her hand, you get the picture! Laugh at everything. Lots of pet names and in-jokes. Lots of sexy hints and teasing. Like be annoying – with a smile on your face – and then run away! End up in your bedroom, where you can fall on the bed and… Interested and sincere Give each other your complete attention. Keep your eyes on him to show that you’re genuinely interested and sincere. Really listen to everything she says. Go heavy on the compliments. Play coy, or be a bit dramatic to warm things up. Have a set bed time, and in the time leading up to bed, create a ritual of talking about positive things together for 30 minutes or so. Perhaps sitting together on the sofa for a last snack. A talk ritual like this will bring you closer together, and will definitely improve your sex life. Prepare for bed together, because it’s a perfect time to laugh together, flirt, and tease. Just think about it. All that washing and undressing may seem like nothing, but it offers you a chance for a closeness that you haven’t had all day. As you get into bed, make a little pillow talk, cuddled up together with the lights off. And make ‘I love you,’ the last thing you say before going to sleep. Those simple words will help you both go to bed feeling close and in love with each other, and ready to take on whatever tomorrow may bring.  nyumbayangu@me.com   If your husband wants more sex, tell him he should spend more time just sitting and talking with you.