The crackdown on ODM rebel MPs has begun in earnest after the party wrote to National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi seeking the removal of vocal Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa from the powerful Parliamentary Service Commission (PSC). Minority Whip Junet Mohamed (Suna East) expressed ODM’s intention to axe the MP, a former confidant of party leader Raila Odinga at the coast, from the lucrative commission. “I seek guidance on how to remove and hence replace a commissioner of the PSC…your urgent consideration of this matter will be highly appreciated,” the letter signed by Mr Mohamed reads. The party is keen to stem any rebellion in its Coast, Western and Nyanza strongholds following a political truce between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Mr Odinga. READ: ODM retreats amid cracks in Coast READ: Coast opposition leaders vow to back 2022 Ruto presidency The pact has resulted in Deputy President William Ruto frequenting the opposition zones, dishing out goodies in terms of development projects, appointing point-men and rallying support for himself. DECLARING SUPPORT About 10 opposition MPs have been trooping to Mr Ruto’s events at the coast, with some declaring support for his presidential ambition. This has angered ODM leaders, including Deputy Party Leader Hassan Joho, the Mombasa governor, who has also declared interest in running for president in 2022. The MPs, among them Ms Jumwa, skipped Mr Odinga’s meeting in Mombasa on Monday as secretary-general Edwin Sifuna said they would be summoned to explain their action. The MPs also gave the party’s National Executive-cum-Parliamentary Group meeting in Mombasa presided over by Mr Odinga, a wide berth. This, despite Mr Odinga stating that ODM and Nasa were still intact and were unshaken by the 2022 election campaigns. Mr Ruto has been at the coast seven times, including Wednesday, since the March 9 political deal between President Kenyatta and Mr Odinga. REGIONAL BALANCE The appointment of members of the PSC is guided by the provisions of Article 127 of the Constitution. Ms Jumwa's removal could give Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga a lifeline. Ms Wanga was denied the slot in favour of Ms Jumwa for regional balance. A PSC seat is coveted as it gives its members enhanced privileges like access to a government vehicle, a state driver, enhanced office space and the power to employ office staff of one’s choice Sources within the Orange party confided in the Nation that the removal of Ms Jumwa was just the beginning of a major crackdown on “rebel MPs”, as plans were also a foot to remove the MPs from the powerful House committees they sit in.   Most of them say they were engaged elsewhere but sent apology to the party.