The supremacy battle between Deputy President William Ruto and Kanu Chairman Gideon Moi has been renewed in the race for Baringo South constituency seat. Already Mr Ruto's machination has seen Senator Moi lose his close ally to Jubilee Part as the parliamentary race heats up. Charles Kamuren who vied for Baringo South parliamentary seat on a Kanu ticket in August 2017 elections has ditched the cockerel party for Jubilee ahead of the by-election slated for August. The seat fell vacant following the demise of area MP Grace Kipchoim a month ago due to colon cancer. OPPOSITION The Orange party and Kanu are the biggest casualties in Baringo County after more than 10 politicians defected to Jubilee Party ahead of the by-election. ODM’s Amos Olempaka from the Ilchamus community who was a close ally to opposition chief Raila Odinga is among leaders who have joined Jubilee. The DP formally welcomed Mr Kamuren and the others to Jubilee Party when he toured Marigat in Baringo South on Sunday. Mr Kamuren, a former Baringo Knut executive secretary will now battle it out for the Jubilee Party ticket with Joseph Tarus, Eunice Santawan Lepario, Mark Kipkoech Kiptoo and Dickson Lenasayo Keis in the party primaries slated for June 9. The name of the late Kipchoim’s son Shadrack Kiprop Kipruto still appears on the list of Jubilee Party aspirants despite his announcement that he has withdrawn from the race. ASPIRANTS He made the announcement during the Madaraka Day celebration in Marigat but never gave the reason why he was out of the race. Other candidates vying for the seat include Edward Tamar (PNU), Lewis Megiri (PDR) and Paul Kimaru (independent). The DP promised to work together with the leaders who had defected to Jubilee Party. “We are welcoming all the leaders to Jubilee Party. I promise that we will work together in uniting the people and bringing development,” said Mr Ruto. He assured all the Jubilee aspirants that no one will be given preference. “Jubilee Party believes in democracy and we want the electorate to decide for themselves. We will only come to coronate the winner,” said Mr Ruto. BEST CHOICE Mr Kamuren’s move to ditch Kanu for Jubilee was immediately met with mixed reactions in the region. Billy Yatich, a political commentator said that Mr Kamuren recent dalliance with Jubilee is ill-advised. “The only way to show that the DP still controls Rift Valley is by Jubilee beating Kamuren in Kanu. Nothing changes as he will have a Jubilee T-shirt but his heart will still be in Kanu,” said Mr Yatich. Solomon Komen, another Baringo resident, however, said that Kamuren is the best choice for the constituency seat. “Joining Jubilee Party has given Kamuren a political lifeline. Maybe he faced frustration where he was,” said Mr Kamuren. DELEGATION In the run up to the last year’s August 8 election, the DP also prevailed upon a gubernatorial candidate Simon Chelugui to vie for the Senate seat to battle it out with Senator Moi. The DP is said to have made the proposal to Mr Chelugui when he hosted a delegation from Baringo County at his Sugoi home in Uasin Gishu County in January 2017. Mr Chelugui was former Governor Benjamin Cheboi’s closest competitor in the 2013 gubernatorial race. Mr Cheboi, however, lost the Jubilee primaries to Stanley Kiptis who later won the gubernatorial seat. Mr Chelugui who vying on a Jubilee ticket also lost the senatorial seat to senator Moi but he was later appointed Water and Sanitation Cabinet secretary. The Ilchamus community, who have for many years being staunch supporters of ODM, assured the DP that they have ditched the party for Jubilee.   Chair Gilbert Kabage says blocking Ruto from meeting Mzee Moi wrong.