No change after dairy cows get feeds I have been buying dairy feeds from some local company and giving them to my two cows for a while. Unfortunately, I have not realised any physical change or an increase in milk production. Please advise me on quality, ratio of feeds to body size and other supplements which can lead to high yields. I get eight to 12 kilogrammes of milk per day from one cow. Martin Gitonga Feeding dairy cattle has a direct effect on milk production. Dairy cattle eat three per cent of their body weight dry matter intake per day. There are many dubious companies that sell substandard animal feeds. Please ensure you get your dairy meal from reputable companies. Give your anmals calcium and phosphorus supplements after they calve down. Ensure that your cows get enough clean water all the time since milk is about 86 per cent water. Dennis Kigiri, Department of Animal Science, Egerton University **** Why are my goats feeding on omena?I would appreciate if you made me understand some strange happening on my farm. I have seen my goats eat omena countless times. I’m wondering if this can be of any nutritional value to the goats, given that they are in the class of polygastric animals.Can they digest animal products? If so, how much can the goats take? Kenn Protein is an important nutrient because it repairs and maintains the body cells. It is also a source of energy and constitutes hormones, enzymes and antibodies. Proteins are also part of animal products such as milk, meat and eggs. Omena is a good source of amino acids required by the goat because for the said functions. It is rich in essential amino acids that are found in optimum levels. While compounding goats feed, you can use omena as a protein source but do not exceed five per cent of the animal’s total diet. Dennis Kigiri, Department of Animal Science, Egerton University **** Facts on poultry and rabbit needed I plan to rear poultry and rabbit but want to engage myself in poultry and rabbit rearing. However, I still have doubts. Is the market for poultry and rabbit products guaranteed? If so, where? Before I get into the farming, where can I get expert advice? I would want to have enough knowledge before getting into the farming because I have seen many get into it and give up. My objective is to be a role model to my community and Butere Sub-County as a whole. Omwami Ashiali, Kakamega There is a massive shift in consumer demand for white meat, creating a business opportunity for products from livestock like chickens and rabbits. However, you must carry out enough research if you want to tap into this market niche. One of the ways you can do this is getting into contract farming.   There are reputable organisations that provide expert information, sell breeding stock and buy back products from farmers to save them from the exploitation of middlemen and the hustle of finding markets. You can get in touch with Rabbit Breeders Association of Kenya on sungurarabak@gmail.com. On matters poultry, contact Dr Subiri Obwogo on bobwogo@hotmail.com. Felix Akatch Opinya, Department of Animal Sciences, Egerton University **** Advise me on how to start a dairy unit Hi. Let me begin by appreciating the good work you are doing. It truly is encouraging. I would like to start zero-grazing with 10 dairy cows. A biogas unit is also part of my plan. What are the requirements as far as housing is concerned? I would also appreciate if you provided me with the dos and don’ts of this kind of farming. What is the approximate cost of the project? Dan Planning to build for the animals before you purchase them is starting on the right note. Cows need comfort for their health and production. A good option is to consult livestock officers in your area. These officers are experienced and readily available. Their services are demand-driven. Biogas offers a solution for waste management in an environment-friendly way. There are consultants that do construction of biogas units. Without mentioning any, consult the Kenya Biogas Stakeholders Network, which is a consortium that brings together stakeholders in the industry. They closely work with Ministry of Energy and can be reached on info@kenyabionet.com .   Your questions on farming and agribusiness answered by experts through: satnation@ke.nationmedia.com