Kenyan Premier League side Kariobangi Sharks on Friday made a bold statement of intent when they thrashed Nanyuki Youth 6-0 in the opening round of the SportPesa Shield matches played countrywide. Sharks, who emerged runners up in last year’s tournament, achieved the victory without the services of regulars Bolton Omwenga, Patillah Omoto, Vincent Wasambo and Ovella Ochieng’ who have travelled to India to take part in an invitational tournament with the national team. Little-known forwards Sidney Lokale and Hillary Otieno accounted for two goals each for Kariobangi Sharks at Nanyuki Stadium, while Paul Kamau and Erick Kipkurui contributed a goal each to complete the merciless 6-0 win over their hosts. In other matches lined up for Madaraka Day, Posta Rangers strolled into the round of 32 after beating Transmara FC 2-0 at the Enoosaen grounds in Narok with goals from Joseph Nyaga and Jeremiah Wanjala. Kenya Police beat Nakuru West Combined 2-1 thanks to a brace from Abraham Dawo, as Kisumu All Stars thrashed Mount Kenya University 4-0 at the ASK Showground in Nairobi. On Saturday, holders AFC Leopards will start their title defence with a trip away to former Premier League side Shabana, in a match coach Rodolfo Zapata acknowledges will be tough. “We have no injuries except the two players who went to India and Whyvonne Isuza is attending to personal issues but we have no pressure ahead of the game. We have a commitment with our supporters to give a good account of ourselves,” Zapata said. Leopards, who beat Kariobangi Sharks 2-0 to win the Cup last year, will have to do without defender Mike Kibwage and captain Duncan Otieno who have both travelled to India with Harambee Stars for the Hero Intercontinental Cup. Shabana, second on the National Division One Zone B standings with 15 points from eight matches, have former Posta Rangers striker Dennis Ongeri to depend on for the goals as they make their maiden attempt to win the domestic cup. Sofapaka, who clinched the title in 2014, play former KPL side Reunion at Camp Toyoyo grounds in one of eight fixtures set for Sunday. Results: Nanyuki Youth 0-6 Kariobangi Sharks Nakuru West Combined 1-2 Kenya Police Transmara Sugar 0-2 Posta Rangers (Enoosaen grounds, 1pm) MKU Nakuru 0-4 Kisumu All Stars (ASK Showgrounds, 3.15pm)  