Having a daughter is not only about responsibility and constant worrying as many men think, but it can also be about fun and connection. A daughter can be a great friend, confidant, and partner in all sorts of wonderful adventures. This is the case for Grace Mwende, the eldest child of Dr Patrick Kabubu, 67, a retired Presbyterian Church minister. She celebrates her father, who she says exposed her to many important aspects of life. Her family moved a lot due to her father’s work and this was a big challenge as it meant Grace and her siblings had to frequently change schools and make new friends. But their father ensured his children kept touch with their old friends to help with their transitions. “I did not like school in my primary and secondary days. I always feared the first day of school (I have no idea why). My father did not know this but his presence during that first day helped reduce the fear and helped me make it through that day. After that I was fine.’ Patrick was brought up by peasant farmers who struggled to educate him and his siblings. His childhood was marked with farming, hunting and looking after cattle. These activities taught him the importance of hard work and creativity. Creativity because he constantly looked for ways of doing his chores to the best of his ability. His childhood stories are hilarious. And despite his poor background, he still managed to study theology up to the doctorate level. “My father loves reading. He is a voracious reader, and has an enviable collection of books in his library. He is particular about keeping the books neat and tidy. This trait has instilled high discipline in us.” TAUGHT BY EXAMPLE Patrick always emphasised the importance of education to his three children. He also brought them up in a Godly environment and taught them by example to follow rules and the law. This has greatly shaped them. “I was once stuck in traffic with him for three hours and I asked him why he's not overlapping like others. His answer: ‘Mwende by overlapping don't I create more traffic? And as Christian my responsibility is to follow the rules’. From that, I learnt that being Christ-like is a lifestyle, I don’t hang it up to pick it up later at my convenience,” Grace says. He taught his children to have a positive attitude and to hard work without complaining; he taught them to build their self-esteem and the value of a close-knit family. “My dad always had time for us, he never made us feel like he was too busy. He was present at all important occasions, including church performances, girls’ brigade sessions, graduations and weddings; he took us to camps. “He would take us swimming and hang out at the pool with us and even learnt a few swimming tips from us. He watched sports and movies with us even when he was clearly tired. He gave us his full undivided attention.” For Grace, her dad is the most supportive person she knows. Many at times, he has gone out of his way to ensure his family, friends and colleagues are happy even when it is inconvenient or at a personal cost. He always wants the best for everyone, Grace says. She believes many people’s lives have been changed after meeting her dad, especially because he speaks openly. Even with politicians, he speaks on integrity and moral issues. He has often encouraged those working in public office to emulate the good leadership qualities of characters in the Bible like David, Moses, Abraham and Queen Esther. The state recognised his efforts to make a positive impact in society and former President Mwai Kibaki awarded him the Head of State Commendation. Patrick has helped many people gain access to education and healthcare through mobilising resources from organisations and friends. He has and continues to mentor young men and women to be agents of change in their generation. He is not only a father to his children but also to many others. “My father stands out because he is my hero, a man who keeps promises – an event that stands out in my life is my wedding. Prior to my wedding my dad would dance around the house and say that he is practising to dance during my wedding. “He also stands out because of discipline. He is a disciplinarian who believes in correcting wrong and steering his children in the right direction,” Grace adds. “I salute my papa, Happy Father’s Day.” *** Follow #DadStoriesKE for more stories like these or visit this Father's Day 2018 link.   Nothing in this world quite prepares you for the death of a parent.