What makes the Fifa World Cup so compelling? As is oft said, it is a test of the best. The biggest football playing nations featuring the world’s top stars clashing in over a period of a month every four years for the right to be called world champions. From 1930 when the inaugural world Cup was held in Uruguay, featuring seven nations the international football fete has steadily grown. Between 1934 and 1978, 16 nations competed in each tournament except in in 1938 when 15 teams showed up and 1950 when 13 nations squared up. The tournament was expanded to 24 teams in 1982 and then 32 nations in 1998. This was done to allow more teams from Africa, Asia and North America to take part. Then in January last year Fifa announced that the World Cup will expand to 48 teams starting with the 2026 edition. But even as the truth of the matter began to sink in the minds of football purists like me – that games at the World Cup would increase from 64 to an unwieldy 80 and be played for well over a month – Fifa in April this year revealed they were considering having a 48-nation tournament in Qatar 2022. That instead of what we have come to be used to of eight groups of four teams each the new format would have 16 groups of three teams each, never mind the many disadvantages of such a programme. Why would Fifa want to fix something that is not broken?  A 32-team finals were just fine. In fact, I would venture to say 24 teams is the ideal number. The attractiveness of the World Cup has always been in bringing together the very best football playing nations in the world for that rare match-up, with everything at stake. And I can pick out classic matches played over the years sometimes in the preliminary rounds but many times in the roller coaster, pressure-cooker, sudden-death atmosphere of the knock-out stages. Think of 1938 when Brazil, rested their eight-goal hero Leonidas in the semi-final against Italy hoping that he would be fresh for the final. Italy went on to win that game 2-1 and storm the final where they beat Hungary 4-2 to retain the world crown. Think of the 1974 final pitting heavyweights West Germany against the Netherlands, won by the German Machine 2-1. What of that beautiful 1986 quarter-final between Socrates guided Brazil and Platini inspired France, or Diego Maradona’s Argentina versus Germany in the that year’s final. What of Algeria versus West Germany 1982 preliminary round, Cameroon versus England 1990 quarter-finals, Nigeria versus Italy 1994 second round? These is the stuff of World Cups. Now, imagine having a 48-team tournament. Would that not be diluting the competition irreparably? First it sets up the possibility of minnows like Kenya, and Swaziland making the world finals. No slight to them - but who will be dying to watch a World Cup match involving say Kenya versus Kiribati, Faroe Islands versus Vanuatu or Curacao versus Chad? There would be no worth in the World Cup. Fifa are scoring an own goal here.  