Tanzania side Singida United clinched third place at the 2018 SporttPesa Super Cup after edging out Kakamega Homeboyz 4-1 on post-match penalties during the third-place playoff match at the Afraha Stadium, Nakuru on Sunday. The sides were tied at 1-1 at the end of the 90 minutes and took penalties to decide the winner. Defending champions Gor Mahia tackle Simba from Tanzania in the final from 3pm with winners pocketing Sh3million in prize money and a chance to play English Premier League side Everton at their home ground, Goodison Park next month. Singida will walk away with Sh750,000 while Kakamega Homeboyz will get Sh500,000. The Kenyan side had taken a fourth minute lead through Wycliffe Ochomo, but the visitors hit back after the break through Danny Lyanga to force penalties. Singida never scored a goal from open play in their three matches in and instead won via penalty kicks. In their first match, they clawed AFC Leopards 4-2 after a barren 90 minutes, before being floored 2-0 by Gor Mahia who are the defending champions in the semi final match. During the penalty shootouts, Kakamega's Benjamin Oketch, who stepped forward to kick the first flick, shot over the crossbar, before Collins Kisuya saw his shot blocked by goalkeeper Peter Junior Mnyika with Noah Wafula slotting the only penalty kick for the Kenyans. Singida clinically executed their penalty kicks scoring through Deus Kaseke, Adam Miraj, Shafi Batambuze and Danny Lyanga. “ I am a new coach at Singida and I’m only one-week-old. This tournament gives me a clear picture of how to reorganise the team. Singida will soon be the next football giant killers in Tanzania and the region,” said coach Hemed Morocco. Homeboyz coach Paul Nkata congratulated his boys for giving Singida a run for their money. “ We came as underdogs but we have clearly demonstrated that we are capable of beating any team in the region,” said coach Nkata. Kakamega Homeboyz will however take memorable memories from this second edition of the tournament as they upset Tanzania’s Young Africans (Yanga) 3-1 in their opening match, before they lost to another Tanzania club Simba 5-4 on post match penalties after a barren 90minutes during the semi-finals.  