Mega corruption scandals have been reported in Kenya in the last couple of months. It is obvious that there is a causal relationship between corruption and youth unemployment because of reduced efficiency of the resource allocation and the fact that bureaucrats are more concerned with their own personal interests at the expense of youth welfare. Changing the current scenario in Kenya will take organised groups of young people who are ready to step out with commitment, declare war and stand for a conviction without compromise. Those who choose to step out should first and foremost understand that they will need to have what it takes to influence others through inspiration, motivated by a passion, produced by a conviction and ignited by a purpose to change this country. It is not possible to change the world in silence. INTEGRATION Young people must integrate into the community, find convincing reasons for their precarious situations and demand well thought through policies that will safeguard their future. They should explore the policy challenges needed to produce greater social inclusion through more opportunities and better access to all services as stipulated in the Constitution of Kenya. As to whether the Constitution is mutilated or not is a debate for another day. Young people should train themselves to question and challenge the affairs of this country before we get to the point of total collapse. They must create a common vision for themselves and understand that the process of getting to a common vision and the ongoing means for implementing good practices and monitoring are just as important as the policies in place. POLICY This visioning should traverse all policy areas ranging from housing, manufacturing, education, health, security, environment to ICT. The weaving across the sectors should produce complementarity rather than conflicts. That way, they will be able to see potential pilferage of resources before it happens with a view to taking corrective action. This is important because the future of Kenya belongs to the young people. Young people must also invade the policy space through activism and demand for quality service delivery. PUBLIC SERVANTS They must petition for tougher laws against corruption. They should also reflect upon youth movement that will ensure all corrupt leaders are removed from public offices. Public office demands servanthood and not a platform to enrich those in positions together with their relatives. Youth should have their impact felt from the beginning of public officers tenure to the end, for example, by getting involved during the vetting and background checks. They should have the attitude of getting to the problem before it gets to them and demand tighter background checks to ensure that corrupt people are not recycled into positions of influence. IDENTITYIn conclusion, we would like to tell the youth that it is really about who you are and how you think in relation to the much needed transformation in Kenya. We urge you to discover your identity and discover how thought processes are organised to fulfil your purpose. You must have a personal encounter with your true self; a discovery of your nature, ability, and essence as a human being. Stand to be counted as the people who fought for Kenya, especially in this generation. Dr Kiambati is a management consultant and a senior lecturer at Karatina University. kellenkiambati@ gmail.com; Dr Kariuki is a social scientist, management consultant and a lecturer at Karatina University. annkariuki02@yahoo.com  