The Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) will oppose any move to disband the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC). National Assembly's Public Accounts Committee chairman Opiyo Wandayi, who is also the party’s secretary of political affairs, said he will rally his colleagues to shoot down a Bill by Aldai MP Cornelly Serem seeking EACC’s disbandment when it comes to the floor of the House. Last week, Mr Serem begun the process of disbanding the anti-graft body by publishing the Bill, arguing that the commission has failed in its mandate to tame corruption in the country as tax payers continue to lose millions of shillings through the vice. MISCHIEF Speaking on Sunday in Kisumu, Mr Wandayi said he reads mischief in the move by the Jubilee legislator as EACC is currently investigating several cases of miss-appropriation of funds. He said instead of the National Assembly debating such a Bill, it should focus on how to strengthen the body so that it functions to its optimum. "This Bill is not well thought out and I will do what it takes to ensure this Bill is defeated on the floor of the House. “I read malice in the move. I believe EACC is currently investigating several people over corruption allegations and there is a tendency of such people trying to subvert the investigations by calling for its disbandment,” said the Ugunja MP. He said, instead, Parliament and all the leaders in the country should take practical steps to enhance the capacity of EACC to handle corruption. GIVE EACC POWERS He recommended that the body to be given powers to mount charges against graft suspects rather than conducting investigations and making recommendation to the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions (ODPP). He down played Mr Serem’s sentiments that EACC's mandate duplicates that of the Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI) saying their mandates are distinct in the Constitution and if well collaborated, they will go a long way not only in addressing corruption but crime in general. On the lifestyle audit call by President Uhuru Kenyatta, Mr Wandayi said the EACC Act and the Leadership and Integrity Act should be harmonised to make it mandatory for Kenyans of age to declare their wealth. RITUAL He said until then, wealth declaration will remain like a ritual as it is today and asked President Kenyatta to subject all his appointed officers to the process and send home those opposed to it. “Lifestyle audit is important and it should start from wealth declaration. As we speak it has become an annual ritual where people pick some forms and throw them at EACC. The law needs to be re-looked into; both EACC Act and Leadership and Integrity Act should be harmonised to make it a must for wealth declaration,” said Mr Wandayi. He commended the government’s efforts in fighting corruption, reiterating ODM’s support for the process. He said the party will not allow Jubilee’s internal wars to derail the fight.   Agency has failed the country on its both fronts; the corruption and the ethics.