Randburg, an area located about 12 kilometres away from South Africa’s capital Johannesburg was the unlikely location for a sneak peak of what was in store for guests in a ceremony in which pan African sports broadcaster SuperSport would launch its package for 2018 Fifa World Cup set for Russia. Veteran SuperSport television anchor Neil Andrews welcomed guests from across the city and from Africa to the event last week. A talented master of ceremony, Andrews gave fans sort of a sneak preview of what is in store for the subscribers of the pay TV channel during the World Cup.   And just after the first phase of the presentations, a man dressed in white cotton shirt, navy blue jeans and white pair shoes checks in and attention suddenly shifts to him. Former Manchester United striker Dwight Eversley Yorke is in the house just hours after jetting in from the United Kingdom. The 46-year-old is a former striker for Tobago but is best remembered for his exploits with the Red Devils. Yorke, born in Canaan in northern America nation of Trinidad and Tobago on November 3, 1971, is one of the most successful and prolific goal scorers in the history of the English Premier League. He was known first at Aston Villa and then Manchester United for his permanent smile, smoothness and flair - and for making headlines both on and off the pitch. He was discovered by Aston Villa manager Graham Taylor while the English club was playing a friendly against Yorke’s team in West Indies. Yorke would later sign a permanent contract with Aston Villa after impressing in trials, and he went on to score a 73 goals in 232 games for Villa, most memorable, in the 3-0 win over Leeds United in the 1996 League Cup final. After a nine-year spell at Villa Park, Yorke joined Manchester United and formed a deadly strike partnership with Andy Cole. Yorke guided Manchester United to the 1998/99 treble and won the league’s Golden Boot with 18 goals. His exploits under Sir Alex Fergusson didn’t end there, he won the FA Cup in 1999, the Uefa Champions League and the International Cup, scoring 52 goals in 96 games. 'GENTLE GIANT' Overall, he netted 123 goals in the English Premier League, a record for a non-European player that had not been broken up until 2017 when Argentine Sergio Aguero bettered the it. At international level, Yorke captained his country at the 2006 Fifa World Cup in Germany. But he is a gentle giant, as I found out in Randburg. “The difference between Aston Villa and Manchester United was not just the calibre of players but the manager. Sir Alex believed in me and despite a few challenges here and there, he told me that I was signed because I was a good player capable of playing for Man United. Indeed he was a God father to me and I learnt a lot from him,” Yorke tells me on the sidelines of the ceremony. “It was the pinnacle of my career, captaining my country at the World Cup. Representing my country of birth was the best feeling and it couldn’t have come any better by playing at the World Cup." "The most prestigious thing for any player is donning your country’s colours and representing them on international stage. Yes, you’ve club career to care about but playing for your country with all your heart means a lot to most players, a reason you should always give your best whenever called upon.” Yorke, a sports ambassador of his country of birth, immediately mentioned Harambee Stars captain Victor Wanyama upon realising I’m Kenyan. He is convinced that the Tottenham Hotspur midfielder is inspiring young players in Africa, just like he used to do during his playing days. “Wanyama is playing with the best players in the EPL I’m sure he is an inspiration to other young players back in Kenya because they see one of their own who has passed through same fields like they are playing in to make it up there.” The five-feet-nine-inch striker opines that Kenya has all ingredients to frequently qualify for Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) and even the World Cup. Kenya last qualified for the continental showpiece 14 years ago and currently sits third in Group “H” of the 2019 Afcon qualifiers after Ghana and Sierra Leone whom they lost 2-1 to in the first round qualifier in June 2017. “Kenya is one of developing countries in African football. I know it has been disappointing not reaching such finals while with players like Wanyama but I know it’s a matter of time before Kenya makes it to Afcon finals and who knows, even the World Cup in 2022 because they have players in foreign leagues who come with the experience and international exposure,” says Yorke, adding that football should be developed from the grassroots. “This has always been challenging with most African countries but if you look at someone like Wanyama who came from the grassroots making it wherever he is, should be a motivation to keep finding another player of his calibre. Countries like England, Brazil, and Germany do the same, Cote d’Ivoire and Senegal are good other examples for Africa doing the same." “At the same time you need players in high level leagues so that they bring back the experience in the national team. In as much as the domestic league is always important ideally if you want players ready to deliver on the big stage, they should be based abroad.” His sentiments were echoed by former South African defender Matthew Booth who also graced the occasion. Booth played for Premier Soccer League sides Mamelodi Sundowns and BidVest Wits as well as Russian sides Rostov and FC Krylia Sovetov. “You get to learn new language, culture and many things outside your comfort zone which broadens your maturity, mentality and experiences and by being overseas you also train under best coaches who enhance your progress and that’s something current players have failed to do in South Africa, they rather play domestically than test their potential in foreign leagues, a reason why we haven’t qualified for major tournaments since the 2010 World Cup,” said the 41-year-old Booth, who was a member of Bafana Bafana squad at the 2010 World Cup in South Africa. GOVERNMENT'S FAILURE For Yorke, who scored 19 goals in 74 games for Trinidad and Tobago, believes African governments have failed in their responsibility of developing sports infrastructure to improve the game. Kenyans vividly remember the five state-of-the-earth stadiums promised by the government in 2013 that haven’t been delivered and shockingly at the moment, two of Kenya’s best stadiums - Nyayo and Moi International Sports Centre Kasarani - remain locked for unending renovations forcing Kenyan Premier League (KPL) teams make long road trips in search of match venues. “Most governments have failed committing in sports for various reasons maybe because the economy is not such strong hence they prefer to concentrate on other needs like education but when you’ve talent, you must nurture it by providing the necessary platforms. Football, in my experience brings different agenda to the table, if taken care of can unite the country because talent goes a long way but if your heart is not in sports its different scenario.” Yorke has tipped Argentina to win the upcoming World Cup in Russia, and reckons England will reach quarter finals. “Argentina has not done well in the World Cup recently, something that’s haunting them but with players like Messi (Lionel), Sergio Aguero and Di Maria, they can do it. England has been disastrous and I don’t think they’ve come of age to win the World Cup, I don’t see them get out of the quarterfinals,” Yorke says.Yorke, who also won the Australian league with Sydney in the 2005/06 season, says of the five African countries headed Russia, Senegal is his best bet.  