Two police officers on Monday denied shooting dead a businesswoman at City Park in Nairobi. Administration Police Constable William Chirchir from Makadara Police Station and AP Godfrey Kirui from Industrial Area Police Station denied murdering Janet Waiyaki last month. While standing in the dock, calm and motionless, the two returned a plea of not guilty when the charges were read to them at the High Court in Nairobi. BAIL Appearing before Justice James Wakiaga, the two officers pleaded with the court to release them on bail, arguing that the constitution grants them the right unless there are compelling reasons to deny them bond. Through lawyer Ham Lagat, the two officers said that they were still serving the force and would abide by all conditions given by the court. He said the two were residing in a police quarters and had been going to Gigiri police station, whenever they were required. The prosecution, however, through assistant director of public prosecutions opposed their release on bail saying that a survivor of the shooting was discharged from hospital on Thursday and the investigating officer was yet to take some statements. She said the police require seven days to file an affidavit stating why they should not be released on bail. But Mr Lagat told Justice Wakiaga that there was no evidence or material placed before the Judge to show why they should not be released. In a ruling, Justice Wakiaga granted the prosecution five days to file the statement and for Mr Lagat to reply, ahead of the hearing on the bail application on June 19. The judge also rejected a plea by Mr Lagat for the two accused persons to be held at Gigiri Police Station. The judge said the two had already pleaded to the charge and should be remanded at the Nairobi Remand Prison. The trial will start on November 20 and will be heard for three days. The officers fired 15 bullets into a vehicle that Ms Waiyaki and Bernard Chege were in on May 20. Ms Waiyaki, 41, died of gunshot wounds while Mr Chege, 26, was left fighting for his life.   George Kirubi denies having a hand in the killing.