We, and by this I mean the media, always got the feeling that there was a lot corruption going on in Jubilee. It felt like a herdsman had taken his cows to a garden, cut the fence and allowed the herd to feed on the crops. We could hear the munching and loud belches but couldn’t actually see the action. Now the mist has lifted and, not only can we see the herd, we can see its devastation. It’s not that corruption in Jubilee is worse than we imagined; it is worse than we could have imagined. A large part of the folks who got into government with Jubilee did so to enrich themselves at the public expense. The amity and trust within Jubilee is broken and the thieves, of their own volition, have lifted their own dress and what a shameful sight. My desk in the newsroom is like the OTC stage, a place where everyone — the corrupt, the naive and those on the lookout for the main chance — pass through. And like shedding animals, they leave a trail of evidence of what yesterday was a big secret. TRIBAL ELITES But the most revolting part, second only to the thieving, is the reaction of tribal elites — and I don’t mean the band from the Rift Valley — to these revelations of corruption. Their key interest is to get in on the eating. And they don’t believe that one can honestly and out of personal integrity set oneself against corruption. They invent stories of cheap tribalism and non-existent deals to fill the ethical chasm in their own stunted personalities. Kenyans have an epidemic of the scarcity mentality. Kleptomania is a national disaster; people want more than they could ever need. As an editor, my greatest concern is that I will report so much corruption that it demoralises the honest majority and get them to lose hope in honesty, integrity and their country’s future. But, at the same time, I believe that we should expose all the corruption, in all its crisis proportions, and support the government in punishing it and formulating approaches to ensure graft is not so lucrative and easy to get away with. CORRUPTION FIGHTS BACK Years ago, John Githongo, then the permanent secretary for Ethics and Governance, used to tell us: “Corruption fights back.” Boy, was that an understatement. Corruption is evil, unfair, malicious, tenacious, relentless, cunning and deceptive. And when it is faced with exposure and punishment, it fights with a desperation fuelled by fear and a highly developed sense of self-preservation. It never takes prisoners; so, if you have decided to fight it expect pain, not a pat on the back and universal love. SCRATCHED THE SURFACE The exposure of corruption is merely warming up; we have not even scratched the surface. The big money centres, the places where the government pours taxes, such as energy and infrastructure, have not been examined. My suspicion is that things will get very, very bad before they get better. The thing about corruption is that once you have opened the bottle you can’t put the genie back. The environment of paranoia and one-upmanship, once it has taken hold, will consume everyone in this vile game. And this is the good news for those who wish the country well. Are the corruption allegations politically motivated? Are allies of Deputy President William Ru-to being singled out? Is this whole thing an intelligence operation to prevent the DP from succeeding President Uhuru Kenyatta? Is President Kenyatta springing a coup on his deputy with a view to succeeding himself? These are fascinating theories and I am sure they are keeping the conversation going during the World Cup half-time break in bars across the country. But they really are beside the point. POWER I remember reading somewhere that in Kenya power is never given; it is fought for. Retired President Moi was fought by the inner circle of Mzee Jomo Kenyatta who wanted to change the constitution so that Mr Moi did not automatically assume power upon Mzee’s death nearly four decades ago. Former President Mwai Kibaki, Mr Moi’s first vice-president, fought to succeed him from the Opposition. The man Mr Moi wanted to give power to, the current President, was defeated. Similarly, Mr Kibaki’s inner circle did not want Mr Kenyatta to succeed him and was all ready to trot out Mr Musalia Mudavadi to be coronated. Mr Kenyatta fought what he colourfully described as “dark forces” and prevailed. FIGHT OFF In the same vein, Mr Ruto should expect to fight off and prevail against those who have other candidates in mind. On the other hand, these mad levels of corruption can’t be good for anyone — least of all Mr Ruto, who will be fighting an election in a few years. They degrade the ruling party’s ability to keep its promises and its leaders come off as dishonest, incompetent and unworthy of high office. I would imagine that the fight against corruption is good for Mr Ruto’s chances at the ballot box. Having said that, Mr Kenyatta made a public promise to support Mr Ruto for the presidency in 2022 in exchange for Mr Ruto’s backing in 2013 and 2017. The President will need a very good reason to go back on his word. What can sink Mr Ruto’s career is if incontrovertible evidence emerges that he has been part of that herd decimating the garden — and there has been none of that so far.  mmutuma@ke.nationmedia.com  