In his work, Developmental Sequence in Small Groups, in 1965, Bruce Tuckman outlined the path to be followed by teams to achieve high performance. He noted the following stages: Forming, storming, norming, performing and adjourning (mourning). It’s through this path that one can only really appreciate the dynamics of corruption in Kenya. Last year, the country was subjected to a prolonged electioneering period, which brought to a near-halt most industries, the economy and, importantly, the corruption ‘industry’. The corruption groups were, literally, in adjourning or mourning stage. At this stage, teams are disbanded. The big fish in corruption were not sure whether President Uhuru Kenyatta would be re-elected or Raila Odinga would emerge the winner. The small fry were not sure whether if Uhuru won he would re-appoint their ‘godfather’ to government. This is the most difficult stage as the future is uncertain. Operations were halted. STATE ORGANSAfter President Uhuru was declared the winner, he restructured the Cabinet and made appointments to various State organs. According to Tuckman, here team members are very polite and positive. The new members have not fully understood what work the team will eventually do, making them anxious. The old ones are very excited about the task ahead. In this case, the corrupt are aware that it’s business as usual. The corruption teams were at this stage early this year. The country was not subjected to corruption scandals. The next stage is storming; where corruption teams now are. Some members may challenge authority, question the worth of the team’s goal and resist taking on tasks. It’s here that most teams fail. There’s a disconnect between the original players and the newcomers. CARTELSStorming will continue until the cartels have a ‘handshake’ of mutual agreement. After that will be the norming stage, when they will resolve their differences, appreciate members’ strengths and respect team leaders. They will ask for help and provide feedback.They will respect boundaries and avoid monopolisation by inducting members who feel left out and hence shouting left, right and centre. There’s the need for not being envious of members who acquire helicopters, 2018 Lexus 570s and mansions in UN blue zone. There’s trading horses between the Executive, Judiciary and Parliament for mutual benefit. Through specialisation, team members will engage in what they are best suited or have experience in. TRADING ACCUSATIONS As tasks come up, the team may lapse back into storming behaviour, trading accusations and counter-accusations till early next year.The minute the country is not subjected to scandals, then the teams will be at performing stage. This is where real work takes place as there’s no friction. Real estate will mushroom — like in Ruaka. Land prices will shoot up and new V8 SUVs will flood the roads with helicopters whizzing in the sky every minute. The country will experience this stage in 2019 to mid 2021. Then, the corruption teams will be relegated to the adjourning stage and start all over in 2022. Mr Gitu is a master's student at the University of Nairobi with an interest in international political economy. gitusteve@yahoo.com  