The Orange Democratic Movement has eased off the push for a referendum, raising questions about its ability to stay the course in the wake of opposing views, which this time come from President Uhuru Kenyatta. While Mr Odinga and his supporters have campaigned for a plebiscite since March 9 when he and Mr Kenyatta forged a political union, their agitation has started to cool after the President declared that a constitutional change is not on his agenda. Mr Kenyatta’s views are backed by his deputy William Ruto, who argues that the push to change the law is motivated by a dishonest desire to reward political elite on the wrong side of government. BUILDING BRIDGES Several leaders told the Nation yesterday that, other than President Kenyatta’s dim view of the referendum, the amend-the-Constitution brigade has also been neutered by a quiet, off-camera agreement between the President and Mr Odinga that all in their camps should expend their energy on the Building Bridges to Unity Advisory Task Force. The thinking is that sustained calls for a referendum might create the perception that the task force is being railroaded to come up with predetermined and fixed recommendations. The prevailing notion, therefore, is that ODM and Jubilee are encouraged by the rapprochement between the President and Mr Odinga and that in light of this, they believe some of the reforms Mr Odinga campaigned for can be achieved without necessarily engineering changes to the law. CHANGED TACK Signs that Mr Odinga has changed tack emerged on Friday  when he told a press conference in Mombasa that the future of the constitutional amendment agenda lies with the task force. “If the team says we need to amend the Constitution, we will do so and no one will stop us,” Mr Odinga said. Yesterday, National Assembly minority leader John Mbadi and minority whip Junet Mohammed echoed his sentiments. Mr Mbadi, however, said Mr Odinga and his reforms lieutenants have not lost firepower since the handshake. “We don’t want to appear to be dictating to the task force,” Mr Mbadi said. REFERENDUM “We have been accused of coming to this union with a closed mind and having sinister objectives. We have eased off to give the task force time to do its work.” Mr Mohammed expressed similar sentiments separately. “What will the team talk about if we continue to push for a referendum? It has been agreed that we let the team do its work and advice the country on the way forward,” he said. He added that by doing this, ODM has ended political bickering against referendum suggestions. ODM Secretary-General Edwin Sifuna said the recent calls for a referendum were premature, but added that if the task force recommends a constitutional amendment, the party would rise up in unison. “If, as captured by Mr Kenyatta and Mr Odinga, devolution must be strengthened, then the natural consequence is that the Constitution must be amended, but we want to respect institutions by giving the task force room to work,” he said. NOT HAPPY University of Nairobi don Herman Manyora had a different view. He said the President and Mr Odinga are acting smarter than before because they have realised Mr Ruto’s camp is not happy with the referendum proposal, and want to push it through the Building Bridges initiative. Mr Odinga is pushing for the adoption of a Parliamentary system of government and a review of devolution, which can only be realised through a referendum He has argued that the only way to ensure peace and equitable development across Kenya is to redesign the national executive and adopt a parliamentary system of government. ETHNIC GROUPS The ODM leader says the presidential executive system is the cause of many of the country’s political problems, including the dominance of a handful of ethnic groups and marginalisation of many others. Under a parliamentary system, power in the national executive is exercised by ministers drawn from the majority party in the National Assembly under the leadership of a prime minister. He says it is much easy to remove the PM and other ministers or censure them if there is significant dissatisfaction with the government.   Mystery-shrouded rapprochement swings open the starting gate for the 2022 presidential race.