Nigeria football great and former Everton FC forward Yakubu Aiyegbeni has singled out Gor Mahia defensive midfielder Ernest Wendo as a potential material to play in the English Premier League. Speaking at Nakuru Athletics Club on Friday after conducting a brief training session with  National Super League side Nakuru All Stars, Aiyegbeni, who is also Everton’s football ambassador, described Wendo as a ‘great player.’ “I watched Wendo during SportPesa Super Cup semi-final match between Gor Mahia and Singida and I can tell you he is a potential material in England. He is big and strong and if he uses his physical strength and skill, it would be great to see him play in one of the big clubs in England,” said Aiyegbeni. “I think he can get a better club in England or Europe if the way I saw him playing is anything to go by.” The former Nigerian international said Thursday’s semi-final matches reminded him of his heydays when he made good use of his physical power and strength. However, he was disappointed by the poor state of Afraha Stadium pitch. “If the players had a better pitch fans would have enjoyed quality football. The pitch was a big let-down and prevented players from exploiting their talents. I really enjoyed watching the two semi-final matches. The teams were more physical and fought for every ball and showed more determination to win,” he said. The former Everton star said the winner of Sunday’s final match between Gor Mahia and Simba would give Everton a good run for their money. “It’s not going to be easy for Everton although I know as an Evertonian we shall definitely win.  I hope the winner of Sunday’s match will give everything at Goodison Park.” He called for more football sponsorships to nurture local players. “Our football skills are still not up to standard, hence the need for exposure outside Africa,” he added. He said football in Kenya has greatly improved compared to five years ago. “There is a big difference. Players are more tactful and organised. Players are now listening to coaches and coaches are experienced and know how to talk to players.” “Sponsorship is key to developing football and will help improve more facilities so we have better pitches.” He advised Nakuru All Stars players who want to turn professional to be dedicated and listen to their coaches. “Discipline is the ladder to professional football career.”  