Calm has returned to the disputed Nandi-Kisumu boundary following last week’s meeting between Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i and governors Stephen Sang and Anyang’ Nyong’o. The talks have helped to reduce tension following a disagreement between the two counties on the boundary in the past one month. A spot check by Nation on Monday revealed that normal activities have now resumed in key towns on the boundary, a sharp contrast to last week. Governor Sang has said Nandi County would respect the findings of the National Land Commission (NLC), which is investigating historical land injustices in the region. “We’ve been in talks with our Kisumu counterparts as we wait for the NLC findings for historical land injustices to be addressed and original boundary of Nandi and Kisumu be resolved for lasting peace to prevail,” Mr Sang told Nation on Monday. Mr Sang noted that with the two regional governments being members of the 14 counties forming the Lake Region Economic Bloc, there should be no bad blood between the leaders and disputes should be resolved amicably. NORMAL ACTIVITIES “Our people should co-exist peacefully. Normal activities need not to be disturbed. National Land Commission should be allowed to do its work in dealing with land injustices,” said Mr Sang. Nandi County had demanded large swathes of land in the two constituencies of Muhoroni and Kisumu East, which it claims were taken during the construction of the Uganda Railway by the British. But the neighbouring Kisumu County did not take these claims well. Among the areas Nandi County is laying claim to are Miwani, Kibos, Kibigori, Kopere, Chemelil, Fort Tenan and Muhoroni towns. This caused tension on towns, slowing down investment in agriculture and microfinance sectors. STERN ACTION During the meeting with the two governors in Nakuru last week, Dr Matiang’i warned that stern action would be taken against politicians who incite communities using the boundary dispute. He asked governors Sang and Nyong’o to ensure peace prevails in the area and leave relevant agencies to look into the matter. “Counties should focus more on development programmes to uplift economic livelihoods. As the central government, we will not allow chaos to occur due to conflicts between the two counties,” said Dr Matiang’i. MAINTAIN PEACE During the meeting, elders from the two communities resolved to maintain peace among the communities in the area. After the meeting, a joint peace agreement was signed between the Luo and Nandi Council of elders. It was also signed by two governors. “We have agreed in this peace agreement to ensure peaceful existence among our communities at the common boundary,” said Governor Nyong’o. IEBC has the mandate to change only political boundaries within the counties every 10 years. A review is due before the 2022 elections and this could also explain the agitation by Nandi County.   Nandi leaders appoint lawyers to petition IEBC as Kisumu digs in.