Universities which have not submitted their statutory deductions to agencies and savings scheme must be investigated and responsible officials brought to book, lecturers demanded yesterday. They said most universities are grappling with cash problems because of mismanagement and corruption, which has compromised the quality of learning. Speaking through the National Executive Council of the Universities Academic Staff Union, the lecturers demanded that Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed takes a "keen interest" in the official audit report that shows the malpractices. They also asked governmental agencies such as the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, the Director of Public Prosecutions, the Auditor General, the Retirement of Benefits Authority and the Director of Criminal Investigations to study it and take action on the culprits. OBLIGATIONS Speaking in Nairobi Uasu Secretary General Constantine Wasonga said it was unfortunate that lecturers and other workers statutory deductions were not being submitted to the relevant authorities. The report by the Ministry of Education indicates that public universities have failed to meet their financial statutory obligations to the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA), National Social Security Fund, National Hospital Insurance Fund, Retirement Benefit Schemes, and Co-operative Societies regularly. “The audit report fully vindicates the union. All along, the unions have been saying that financial mismanagement is rampant in our public universities, with adverse effects on the welfare of universities academic staff,” said Dr Wasonga. SH481.3 MILLION The Ministry of Education report, which was ordered by Ms Mohamed, indicates that universities are making deductions for National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF), bank and sacco loans and savings, retirement savings and Pay As You Earn but not remitting them. According to the report, a total of six universities have outstanding remittances to banks and saccos amounting to Sh481.3 million.   Audit lays bare rot in varsities as staff money goes missing, exposing them to poverty.