IN MOSCOW The uncertainty surrounding Mohammed Salah in Egypt’s starting line-up against Luiz Suarez’s Uruguay in Friday’s second match of Group ‘A’ at the Luzhniki Stadium here has taken attention away from goalkeeper Essam El-Hadary, who will be having a date with history. At the same time, another African team, Morocco, who lost their bid to host the 20126 World Cup to USA, Canada, will begin their campaign in the tournament against Iran in a Group ‘B’ match that starts at 6pm in Saint Petersburg. When goalkeeper El-Hadary lines up for the match this afternoon here for Pharaohs to try and keep a clean sheet against Suarez and PSG’s Edinson Cavani, he will be chasing personal ambition of playing at the World Cup, and a place in history as the oldest player to play in the World Cup. Further, El-Hadary will be out to realise his late father’s ambition. His dad died before realizing a life-long desire of seeing his son play at the Fifa World Cup. “My father, who passed away, told me that his dream is to watch me playing at a World Cup and I want to make my dad proud,” El Hadary told journalists after his coach Hector Cuper named him in a 23-man final squad last month. The 45-year-old, who plays for Al-Taawoun in Saudi Arabia, is also poised to become the oldest man to play in the Fifa World Cup after Colombia goalkeeper Faryd Mondragon, who was aged 43 when he played in the 2014 World Cup in Brazil. On Thursday, Egypt’s coach Hector Cuper told a press conference in Grozny that Salah, who injured his left shoulder during 2018 Uefa Champions League final between Liverpool and Real Madrid on May 26 at Olympiyskiy Stadium in Kiev, is fit to play, but in Salah’s absence, El Hadary naturally becomes the leader of the squad. El-Hadary will become the second African player to hold the honour of the oldest player to feature at the World Cup. In 1994, Cameroon’s Roger Milla held that honour when USA hosted the World Cup. Milla was aged 42 years, one month and eight days. Egypt arrived in their training base in Grozny, the capital city of former war-torn Russian republic of Chechnya, on Sunday. Pictures of Salah posing with Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov prompted claims that Kadyrov was using the Liverpool talisman to gain political mileage since his regime has been accused of ruthlessly clamping down on dissent, enforced disappearances and human rights abuses since closing ranks with Russian strongman Vladimir Putin in 1999. It is those kind of reports that Cuper least expects as he prepares to play Uruguay who have been based at Nizhny Novgorod, some 400km east of Moscow.  