GETTING RID OF STURBBON SNAILS Please advise me on how to get rid of the edible snails variety in my compound. They are everywhere, especially during the rainy season and are feasting on my plants. Anyone who needs them is free to come over and collect any quantity for free or order for free delivery. Muriithi There are several methods that you can use to get rid of snails. You can use copper tape which you tie around the periphery of the vegetable garden if it is a small piece of land. You can also sprinkle copper pellets around the base of the plants you want to protect. Copper acts as a repellant due to its reaction with the mucous or slime on the snails and this produces an electric shock. Crushed egg shells can also be sprinkled at the base of the crops and this will make the snails not to climb on the plants as they have sharp edges. Coffee can also be placed around the base of the plants as the smell repels the snails. Chicken, ducks, geese and other domestic animals can be used to feed on the snails. You can also try beer traps where by you put the alcohol in containers especially at night when the snails are most active. The smell of the beer will attract the snails then they become drunk and as they climb the containers they drown. Ensure good hygiene, removal of weeds and other refuse which act as breeding grounds for snails. Cultivation can also kill the snails. Carol Mutua, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. **** I WANT TO FARM CHILLI I am a young farmer interested in chilli farming for export. Please advise me on how to grow it and where to buy certified seeds? Patrick, Solai, Nakuru Chilli is propagated by direct seeding and transplanting. In direct seeding, drilling of the seeds is done and later the seedlings are thinned when they are about 5-10cm tall and with 3-4 leaves. The direct seeded chilli is spaced at 45-90cm between the rows and 30-45cm between plants. Priming of pepper seeds improves their germination percentage.   Transplanted chilli seedlings are raised in the nursery or in containers 6-8 weeks prior to field planting. The seedlings are transplanted when 15-20cm tall. Spacing is the same as for the direct seeded (45-90cm inter-row and 30-45cm intra-row). Farmyard manure at 20 ton/ha before transplanting, 200kg/ha DSP (10g/plant) at planting, then top dress with 100kg CAN/ha applied in two splits; 1st split when plants are 20-25cm and 2nd split 3-5 weeks later. Excess nitrogen application results in excessive vegetative growth at the expense of fruit production. In dry areas, irrigation should be practised so as to maintain high yields. Capsicums will consume 600-750mm of moisture. Irrigation should be by drip or furrow irrigation. Sprinkler irrigation encourages the occurrence of fungal diseases. Capsicums are sensitive to water stress. If water stress occurs during flowering and fruiting time, it causes flower drop and fruit abortion. Therefore, frequent irrigation is necessary to maintain vegetative and reproductive growth. You can get certified chilli seeds from Safari Seeds, Royal Seeds or Green life Protection. Carol Mutua, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. **** MARKET FOR CHIA AND ROSEMARY I am Peris currently based in Nakuru. I am seeking advice on chia and rosemary market. Is there a company that buys in bulk if one is to grow them on large-scale? Peris There are companies that buy chia seeds like Aliva Foods Company in Kisumu. Find them at ch@momentumtrust.dk. You can also market your chia and rosemary through social media platforms like Facebook and WhatsApp, exhibitions and International Trade Fairs. Rosemary market is available at restaurants, groceries, markets and institutions. You can first contact the restaurants and groceries to be sure of a ready market.   You can also add value to rosemary by drying, packing and selling. Rosemary is further being used to extract oil. These two herbs are fairly resistant to diseases and, therefore, most of the buyers will insist on those which are grown organically. Carol Mutua, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. **** USING ALOE VERA I am a resident of Nakuru and I come across a lot of aloe vera and castor oil plants that grow naturally in many parts of the country. Is there any way or opportunity I can exploit these natural resources as I feel and think they are going to waste? Please advise. Eric Sindabi, Njoro You can add value to aloe vera by drying to make aloe powder or you can sell the leaves to companies that use it to make soaps, lotions, shampoos and juice. Castor seeds are used in the extraction of oil and you can also look for companies that extract oil from castor seeds and sell it to them. Carol Mutua, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University   Send your queries on farming and agribusiness to satnation@ke.nationmedia.com