President Kenyatta has axed 15 principal secretaries who were not reappointed when he named his second-term Cabinet in January. The Nation has learnt that the Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua has written to the PSs terminating their contracts with immediate effect. In one of the letters seen by the Nation, Mr Kinyua says the 15 were dismissed because the reconstitution of President Kenyatta’s government is complete. In the letter addressed to Ms Fatuma Hersi Mohammed, who served in the ministry of Tourism, Mr Kinyua asks the dismissed PSs to prepare for their departure. “You will be paid salary up to June 30, which will be your last working day,” Mr Kinyua writes. He asked the PSs to hand over their offices to those appointed by Mr Kenyatta when he reconstituted his government in January. In his January appointments, President Kenyatta named 31 principal secretaries, 15 less than the 46 who served in his first term. He did not, however, clarify on the fate of the 15 who had served in the first term but were not on the new list. Of the 15 whose fate remained unclear, six had their posts filled by new appointees. Mr John Mosonik (Infrastructure) was replaced by Mr Julius Korir who previously served in the health docket. Mr Mosonik was leading the 10,000km Jubilee road tarmacking programme. President Kenyatta also edged out Sports Development PS Richard Ekai after he retained Peter Kaberia to the position he ascended to in March 2017. Mr Ekai was edged out following a litany of accusations after the Rio Olympics scandal. The full list is as follows: 1. Arts, Culture - Joe Okudo 2. Broadcasting & Telecommunications - Sammy Itemere 3. Cooperatives Ali - Noor Ismail 4. Gender Services- Mwanamaka Mabruki 5. Housing & Urban Development - Aidah Munano 6. ICT & Innovation - Victor Kyalo 7. Infrastructure - John Musonik 8. Transport- Patrick Nduati Mwangi 9. Labour - Khadija Kassachoom 10. Mining - Dr Mohammed Ibrahim Mahmud 11. National Water Services - Fred Sigor 12. Correctional Services- Richard Ekai 13. Tourism - Fatuma Hersi 14. Planning - Wilson Nyakera Irungu 15. Vocational & Technical Training - Dr Dinah Jerotich Mwinzi  