While the recent launch of a new land policy shows the government's commitment to streamlining the management of this key resource around the country, the real challenge will be in the implementation. Good policies that are not strictly enforced are not worth the paper on which they are written. Sadly, this is the case where the intentions in the formulation of government policies are not matched with vigorous enforcement to realise results. The degradation of water towers and the invasion of riparian land are rampant challenges, whose consequences are dire. There are other problems, including the mushrooming slums in the towns and rising cost of land. DEVELOPMENT PLANS The issuance of title deeds and failure to adhere to approved physical development plans present headaches that have spawned the emergence of cartels that take advantage of the confusion. It's commendable that the Lands ministry and the National Land Commission have stepped up efforts to streamline the management of land. The digitalisation of land registries is a key component of vital reforms to break up the cartels' stranglehold on this key sector. Their work will be made much easier by strictly implementing the Sessional Paper No 1 of 2017 on National Land Use Policy. It's a tool that should be wielded to reclaim grabbed riparian land and restore the degraded water towers. It is instructive that substantive resources have been allocated to implement this five-year plan. LAND OWNERSHIP With Sh17 billion budgeted for it, there should be no excuses for failure to see it through. The new policy presents an opportunity to solve the disputes and conflicts over land ownership that are far too common. As the country waits for an assessment of the gains from the ban on logging in the forests, including water towers that Deputy President William Ruto announced several months ago, the new land policy should enable officials to keep up the momentum to streamline the management of land. The team in charge of land management has its work cut out for it.  