Ethnic arrogance and chauvinism are Kenya’s worst curses. They have displaced brotherly love, respect for compatriots and concern for the welfare of your neighbour. It is because of chauvinism and arrogance that people assume it is okay to exclude millions of Kenyans from the mainstream of the nation and carry on as if some have a bigger claim to national resources than others. Every time I visit Kisumu, I walk away with memories and insights into the fabric of our troubled country. ELECTION VIOLENCE It is not a national secret that I am partial to the lakeside city’s club life and, even though I am not a great dancer or much of a reveller, I have been seen at Signature Club once or thrice. This week, Kisumu reminded me of a familiar person recovering from a serious illness. The hotels are virtually empty, as are the clubs; the usual carefree sense of life seems to have slowed down. The last time I was in Kisumu was well before the elections and the energy and optimism of the city captivated me. The city and the people were seriously damaged by the demonstrations and the election violence of that period. PEACE DEAL In meetings with residents, they insisted that more than 300 people died in the demonstrations against the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission last year. How I wish I knew the full truth about that. In Nairobi, with stomachs full of good food and drink, possibly bought with the proceeds of a tender, you will find city slickers waxing knowledgeable about the so-called handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Orange leader Raila Odinga. They will be probably be discussing payouts, cars, bodyguards, big jobs and a whole list of other speculation. The assumption is that this is a deal between two people, for their benefit. DOUBT The astounding sense of exclusion from the nation and the burning anger over corruption among ordinary, poor Kenyans in the so-called opposition areas is a true revelation. And many have welcomed the ‘handshake’ as a compromise so that life can go back to normal and as a means of giving them a voice in national government. But they sense that the handshake is not universally popular and fear that its enemies might try to undermine it. I think it makes sense for Kenyans to think beyond themselves, their needs, their greed and sometimes their big stomachs. And all those theories about ethnic superiority and manifest destiny humbug. CIVILI also think that all the people should seek peaceful ways of having grievances addressed. Kenyans must never try to use violent demonstrations to seek the overthrow of a legitimately elected government. And the way to resolve electoral disputes is not to buy guns and pangas and collect stones, but to use legal means. If it is necessary to go to the streets, it is in the interest of the demonstrators not to give the authorities an excuse to resort to bullets. INCLUSIVITYOn the other hand, nobody with a half-functioning brain should support a system of politics that is not inclusive and which assumes that an electoral majority confers upon the winner the right to dominate, manipulate and plunder the State. Unequal access to national resources — including the opportunities for mass looting — must end. And there must be justice for victims of state violence, whether its use was justified or not. An apology to the families of the victims must be tendered and reconciliation achieved, with or without monetary compensation. Kenya is a phenomenal place when we work together. So, why don’t we? * * *I have heard many theories about the ongoing corruption crackdown and its coverage in the Daily Nation. One is that the purge is the work of the so-called “deep state” and its purpose is to cut Deputy President William Ruto at the knees. I find this argument irrational and defamatory because of its presumption that the DP is the biggest loser in the fight against corruption. Every crook is a loser in this fight. The second argument, which I have seen played in the Indian Ocean Newsletter, is that the Nation is manipulated to report these cases to make President Uhuru Kenyatta look good. AGENDAThese arguments are being made by people who don’t really know the mind of editors. When Michael Manning walks through the door with the embassy cables under his arm, his motivation for leaking them is the least of your concern. The first consideration is, are they authentic? The second one is: Will their publication serve the larger good. No good journalist is ever worried about being manipulated by their source. Every morning, a journalist wakes up to a world full of people waiting to manipulate him and use him to sell their agenda. MEDIA His sacred duty is to take their information, but make sure that they do not succeed. There is a difference between communications expertise and proficiency at dispensing bribes. Three quarters of the people making a living as “media experts” and consultants, especially to the political class, are actually fools. The media are at their best when they are fighting for the people; that’s what the Nation is doing, the fightback by corruption notwithstanding. mmutuma@ke.nationmedia.com  