Retired military chiefs, ex-governors and other politicians who lost in the August 2017 elections are among big winners in the latest parastatal leadership changes. President Uhuru Kenyatta has approved the appointments that also rewarded a number of officials who served in his first term. KIBWANA In a gazette notice dated June 6, 2018, the head of state formalised the appointment of retired Chief of Defence Forces Julius Karangi as non-executive chairman of the National Social Security Fund (NSSF). General (rtd) Karangi has also been appointed as NSSF trustee. The two appointments are a promotion for General (rtd) Karangi who has been serving as chairman of the Kenya Airports Authority (KAA) since June 24, 2016 following the sacking of former police boss David Kimaiyo. NSSF, with billions of shillings in Kenyan workers’ retirement benefits, has been rocked by power struggle over control of the fortune. Another retired General, Joseph Kibwana, has been picked to head the Kenya Ports Authority Board in a non-executive capacity. Retired Major-General Charles Mwanzia, on the other hand, has been appointed as a board member of the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority. Retired Major-General Charles Mwanzia has been appointed as a board member of the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority while former Kenya Revenue Authority chief executive Michael Waweru has been picked to head the Kenya Railways Corporation Board. Among new appointees are former Baringo Governor Benjamin Cheboi, who has been appointed the non-executive chair of the Agricultural Development Corporation. SHAHBAL Mr Suleiman Shahbal, who lost to Mr Hassan Joho in the Mombasa gubernatorial race, has been appointed the chairperson of the board in the Kenya Trade Network. Former Isiolo Governor Doyo Godana has been tapped to head the board of Eldoret-based Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital. Former Kenya National Union of Teacher chairman Mudzo Nzili has been appointed to head the National Irrigation Board as non-executive chairperson of the board. And in what appears to be a fruit of the recent handshake between Kenyatta and Opposition chief Raila Odinga, the president gave the green light to the elevation of Mr Odinga’s former aide Caroli Omondi to the National Oil Corporation of Kenya board as a member. Public policy expert Dr Washington Macodingo also got appointed to the Kenya Investment Authority as a member. On November 14, Dr Macodingo announced he had drafted a Bill seeking the removal of 27 constituencies in the four Nyanza counties from the Republic of Kenya to create a new county called Kuria. A number of politicians’ kin have also benefitted from the president’s latest round of state appointments. Judith Kibaki, President Kibaki’s daughter, has also been appointed to the Kenya Investment Authority board as a member. KIBAKI'S DAUGHTER Mrs Margaret Saitoti, wife to former vice president and Cabinet minister George Saitoti, has been appointed as a member of the NOCK board Former MPs John K’Obado (Uriri) and Martin Ogindo (Rangwe) have been tapped to become members of the Agricultural Development Corporation. Former IEBC commissioner Lilian Mahiri-Zaja has been appointed to the Energy Regulatory Commission as a board member. Perennial parliamentary candidate Amina Abdalla’s longevity in state positions appears to have been confirmed with an appointment in the Coast Development Authority. The former nominated Kanu MP, who served between 2002 and 2017, has been appointed to the Coast Development Authority board. The president also confirmed the reappointment of Rita Kavashe to the Kenya Roads Board as Hellen Wamugi and John Maingi were confirmed in their previous Kenya Railways Corporation board membership positions. Also reconfirmed were National Cancer Institute’s chair Ochiba Lukandu and Kenya Veterinary Vaccines Production Institute’s board members— Prof Isaac Mbeche and Mr Robert Mburu. Ms Galdys Mbindyo and Mr Wainaina Kinyanjui were also reappointed to the National Housing Corporation board.  