The Tana River County health department has been grappling with a Sh126 million debt hampering service delivery, Governor Dhadho Godhana has said. Speaking at a forum in Hola, Mr Godhana said the department has been borrowing money from other departments to survive as it struggles to settle debts inherited from the previous regime. "The department is not to blame; they have been dealing with a back-breaking debt that they inherited from the previous leadership,” he said. Mr Godhana said the county government has been stretching itself beyond its limits to correct the mess left by the previous regime which left the hospitals on their knees. IGNORANCE He said the sentiments of leaders in public forums concerning the state of health have always been made out of ignorance, as they do not understand the burden the county executive has been dealing with. "We are the ones who know where the shoes pinches most, none of you knows. As a matter of fact, you just knew today that the department has been ailing from Sh126 million debt," said Governor Godhana. Hospitals in the county have been facing unending challenges, with residents and leaders blaming it on the executive. COMPLAINTS Shortage of drugs coupled with theft, lack of ambulances, few nurses and arrogant staff are some of the complaints highlighted by locals. As a result, residents have been abandoning local hospitals to seek treatment in Malindi in Kilifi County while others go to Garissa. The local county hospital has been referring 70 per cent of its patients to Malindi, which Health and Sanitation Executive Mwanajuma Hiribae attributes to lack of experts in most of the fields despite having the necessary equipment. Mr Godhana said he is confident the two Cuban doctors who will be posted to the county will help improve services. More medical experts and nurses are to be hired by September. "The next financial year comes with better moments. We will revamp services and infrastructure in these hospitals. We have allocated money to bring the services up to date, including hiring more nurses," he said.  