Melvin Ondigi Nyamweya, known by his stage name Melvo Hype is an award-winning gospel hype Emcee, TV Host, Event Organiser and Brand Influencer.  1. How did you get into emceeing? Are there qualifications needed for it, or do one just need to have a lot of hype? I got into emceeing just for fun at Mavuno Church in 2011 and my pastors saw that I was good at it. They prayed for me and advised me to consider doing it professionally. The only qualification you need to be an Emcee or Hype-man is confidence and passion to do it since it is not easy work, standing in front of people and entertaining them for hours.  2. There are a lot of other titles under your belt. What kind of events do you organise? Are they all also gospel events? I’m a hype-man, Emcee, TV and Radio Host, Brand Activator and Events Organiser. I run an events and marketing company called 316 Entertainment and under it we organise a Christian youth event called “Czone Event” that happens every April, August and December. It gives a platform for upcoming talents and is also attended by the top gospel artist of the moment just to spice up the event and their fans get to interact with them freely. I mostly organise gospel events just to bring people closer to God and make them realise that you can also have pure fun in Christ. We also have a mentorship program for upcoming talents - because someone believed in me, so why not mentor someone else as well?  3. There's been a trend in Kenya for the past couple of years that has seen a lot of artists switch to gospel because it is perceived that there is a lot of money in gospel music. Do you think that is a realistic statement? What happens when people switch only for the money? The truth is the gospel music industry has a lot of money since many people consume gospel music and corporates are pumping their monies and resources into it, but it would be unfair for one to switch into gospel because of the money. One would have lost the true meaning and message behind gospel music, since the sole purpose of gospel is to win souls for Christ. The Bible says seek first the kingdom of God and everything shall be added unto you, not vice versa.  4. You have won awards for your work before. Do you think the gospel industry awards are fair, or do you think more could be done to make it a more even playing field? They are very fair. Your work speaks for you and through it, new faces have started getting recognition and platforms through the awards. The awards encourage healthy competition and great networking between the players in the industry.  5. Who are you voting for in the upcoming Groove awards, i.e. who are some of your favourite gospel acts? This time I didn’t manage to get a nomination, unfortunately. But 90% of the nominees are my friends so it seems fair to not say who I’m voting for! However, I would like to commend the Groove Awards Team for finally including a category strictly for Emcees and Hype-men. We've prayed and pushed for it for years and finally it is here. We have it! All the best to all the nominees.    James Wamathai is a writer, digital marketer, online publisher, and a digital rights activist.