Nyanza and Western regions appeared to embrace national celebrations yesterday with an improved turnout during Madaraka Day celebrations  following months of acrimonious politicking. In Kisumu, the effects of the handshake between ODM leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta pacified  crowds as they turned up to listen to a speech by County Commissioner Pauline Dola. Politicians led by Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o  graced the occasion at Jomo Kenyatta Sports grounds. NEAR-EMPTY The event attracted hundreds of youth unlike the low turnout witnessed during the last national celebrations. The governor had set the tone with a patriotic statement on promoting celebrations and inviting investors to the county. The mood had been different during the last Mashujaa and Jamhuri Day celebrations when the county commissioner found herself reading the President’s speech  in a near-empty ground as the region faulted security authorities over perceived election rigging. REPEAT POLL In Migori, where officials had been forced to abandon the last two national celebrations due to political tensions, residents thronged various venues for the event. “Were it not for the handshake, I would not have been here. I am glad that our leaders united and peace has prevailed,” said Ms Joyce Akinyi, a resident of Migori town. Migori is one of the four counties in Nyanza that didn’t vote in the repeat elections after Mr Odinga pulled out of the race over rigging claims. In Vihiga, the event started  after 11am after Governor Wilber Ottichilo and County Commissioner John Chelimo arrived. However, none of the 38 MCAs and MPs was present. ROTATIONAL Mr Chelimo said his administration is mulling holding national celebrations on rotational basis in each of the five sub-counties to boost attendance by the public. Mbale’s Municipal Grounds located at the county’s headquarters has traditionally hosted the celebrations of national days. In Kericho, Governor Paul Chepkwony asked county land surveyors to vacate national government offices and work under Land Executive Barnabas Ngeno. Speaking during the celebrations at Green Stadium, the governor promised to work with his vicious critic, Kapsoit MCA Paul Chirchir. In Homa Bay, Governor Cyprian Awiti and County Commissioner Irungu Macharia promised to work together. CORRUPTION Kisii Governor James Ongwae dismissed those engaging in early campaigns for governorship. He also praised devolution saying it has helped improve development in the counties. He said 1,000 kilometres of road had been paved in the county. In Bomet, Governor Joyce Laboso appealed to residents to be pro-active and report cases of corruption to relevant authorities. Reporting by Victor Raballa, Derick Luvega, Elisha Otieno, Vivere Nandiemo, Magati Obebo, Anita Chepkoech, Barack Oduor and Ruth Mbula  