Presbyterian University of East Africa has defended its decision to continue recruiting new students though its licence was revoked in January this year. Vice-Chancellor John Mungania said the institution is free to recruit students for its various academic programmes as it awaits a report from a special advisory committee. “Following an appeal against the revocation of the letter of interim authority in January 2018, the university has continued to operate normally as per its mandate,” said Prof Mungania. He went on: “Currently, there are both government and privately sponsored students studying harmoniously in the university.” UNPAID ARREARS The three-member team was appointed by the Ministry of Education to work with the university following the revocation. It comprises Prof Crispus Kiamba, Prof James Tuitoek (Egerton University) and Prof Ratemo Michieka (Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology). The team has already submitted its report to Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed, who is expected to study it before deciding the fate of the university. In a report to the CS dated January 22, the Commission for University Education (CUE) recommended that the letter of interim authority awarded to the university in 2007 be revoked, citing unpaid arrears on salaries and allowances and lack of adequate resources to meet its obligations. However, the university says it has since settled the arrears. TEACH OUT The university first admitted students in 2008 after it was issued with the letter of interim authority on August 10, 2007. It is yet to get a charter. According to the Universities Act 2012, the Cabinet Secretary may, on the recommendation of CUE or on application by the respective institution, revoke a letter of interim authority in accordance with regulations on the winding up of universities and shall issue a Gazette notice to that effect. Once a letter of interim authority is revoked, an institution is allowed to teach out all currently enrolled students or help them transfer to another university.   VC John Mungania terms decision harsh and expresses confidence it will be lifted.