Star match analysts remain tight-lipped ***** Football stars of yesteryears have flocked to Russia to offer their services as football analysts for various media houses. Former Monaco, Juventus, Arsenal, and Barcelona star Thierry Henry from France is in Moscow as part of Belgium’s technical bench while ex-Manchester United star Phil Neville is coach of England women’s team and a football pundit for Sky Sports, alternating between Luzhniki Stadium and Spartak Stadium to analyse matches. When approached for interviews by the press here, Neville politely turns down the request saying he is bound by contract not to talk to the media. Best-known church to mark 455th year *****St Basil’s Cathedral, built in 1555-1561, is Russia’s best-known church. The church, located in Red Square in Moscow, is one of Russia’s most photographed sights. St Basil’s Cathedral marks its 455th birthday on July 12. It was built in 1555-1561 by order of Tsar Ivan the Terrible to commemorate his victory over medieval state called Kazan Khanate which was absorbed into Russia. Four of the cathedral’s eight chapels were named after religious holidays that coincided with key events in the war. The cathedral symbolizes the kingdom of God, and is actually nine churches in one! England fans party in Moscow streets ***** England fans have been among the loudest on the streets here after their team beat Panama 6-1 in their second match of Group ‘G’ on Sunday to guarantee themselves a place in last 16. Harry Kane’s hat-trick— the first by a Three Lions player at the World Cup in 32 years — was the icing on the cake. English fans broke into wild celebrations outside Nizhny Novgorod Stadium after the match, and those in Moscow partied till dawn to celebrate the win which also made Kane the top scorer in the tournament with five goals so far. The fans are now facing their chances of reaching the final. World’s deepest lake popular for sports ***** Lake Baikal, located in southern Siberia, is considered the deepest lake in the world and is popular with winter sports. The massive lake in the mountainous Russian region of Siberia is also considered the largest fresh water lake in Europe, and is circled by a network of hiking paths called the Great Baikal Trail. It’s western shoreline is a popular starting point for summertime wildlife — sporting tours, ice-skating during winter and dog sledding. According to records, Baikal is estimated to be 25 to 30 million years old, making it the most ancient lake in geological history.  