Governor Hassan Joho has waived hospital and mortuary fees in all Mombasa County hospitals on Madaraka Day. The county boss said the waiver is in line with the unity deal between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) leader Raila Odinga. Mr Joho ordered the county secretary Francis Thoya to implement the order with immediate effect. "Some people are detained in several county health facilities because they have no money to pay for services.  Because this is their county and I am their governor, I have ordered them released with immediate effect.  The county will cater for their bills. Let them go home and enjoy their celebrations," Mr Joho ordered the county secretary Francis Thoya. The detainees are also set to get fare allowance from the county government. HANDSHAKE Mr Joho praised the unity deal between President Kenyatta and Mr Odinga, terming it the best political move ever taken in Kenya's history. "There were times that were tough... But in the spirit of achieving development, then that is history now and we shall use the same peace pact to push for development in the region," Mr Joho said. Likoni MP Mishi Mboko hailed the handshake, saying it is the only chance to ensure the country develops. "There are those who are rebuking the handshake lamenting that it has nothing to offer. This is my message to [them]… the pact is the only tool which will make Kenya great again and those downplaying it are day dreaming," she said. Kisauni MP Ali Mbogo also hailed the handshake, adding that it has brought peace and stability in the country. "The Mombasa governor is here today indicating the changing times.  He used to skip these events but we are happy that he is now here," the MP said. Changamwe MP Omar Mwinyi also called for a united country, saying that it is the only way to make sure Kenya moves forward. "I also used to skip these events like the governor but the handshake changed everything. Now we must forge ahead in development,"  he said. Mombasa Senator Mohamed Faki said the handshake was the best way to bring the country together and heal political divisions," he said.  