The women of Ocean's 8 proved this weekend that they know how to steal the show — and much more — as the new heist flick took in an estimated sh.4.2billion in North American theatres. With an all-star cast led by ever-popular Sandra Bullock and supported by Cate Blanchett, Anne Hathaway, Helena Bonham Carter, Mindy Kaling and Rihanna, the Warner Bros. film was Hollywood's latest experiment — after "Ghostbusters" — in replacing an all-male cast with female stars. The result: one of the top 10 openings of the year so far, according to box office tracker Exhibitor Relations, and a better debut than the three earlier "Ocean's" editions made by Stephen Soderbergh and starring a male principal cast. The latest chapter stars Bullock as Debbie Ocean, sister of Danny Ocean — played by George Clooney in the Soderbergh films — as she assembles a gang of talented women to plan a seemingly impossible diamond heist from a glamorous gala in New York. In second place was last weekend's leader, "Solo: A Star Wars Story," starring Alden Ehrenreich as a young version of the swashbuckling space pilot. The Disney film took in sh.1.6 million, roughly half its previous weekend's total. Third spot went to "Deadpool 2" from 20th Century Fox, at sh1.4 billion. This latest in Fox's X-men series stars Ryan Reynolds in the title role. Its worldwide ticket sales have surpassed sh65.7 billion. In fourth was a new film, "Hereditary," at sh1.4 billion, the best opening ever for A24, the indie production house behind "Moonlight," "Lady Bird" and "The Disaster Artist." The horror film, about a family haunted after its matriarch dies, stars Toni Collette and Gabriel Byrne. Its decent opening came in spite of an R-rating and a D+ audience rating from CinemaScore. In fifth was "Avengers: Infinity War," from Disney-owned Marvel, at sh728 million. With a cast including Robert Downey Jr., Benedict Cumberbatch and Scarlett Johansson, the superstar-rich extravaganza is now a mere sh50 million away from becoming the fourth movie in history to cross the sh20 billion mark worldwide. Rounding out the top 10 were: "Adrift" (Sh534 million) "Book Club" Sh435 million) "Hotel Artemis" (Sh323 million) "Upgrade" (Sh245 million) "Life of the Party" (Sh223 million)   It's a musical, so there are a lot of good songs and idealistic moments.