A section of Tharaka-Nithi ward representatives have vowed to reject the county’s proposed budget and development plan for 2018/19 Financial Year. Citing discrepancies in figures and lack of fairness in distribution of resources, the MCAs said they will reject the two documents. Magumoni MCA Justin Kithinji said Sh10 million allocated for buying land and Sh30 million for construction of the county Speaker’s residence was exaggerated. “Sh40 million is a lot of money to be allocated for construction of the Speaker’s residence considering that one acre of land within Kathwana is approximately Sh1 million,” said Mr Kithinji. Mugwe MCA Dennis Mutwiri and nominated ward representative MCA Anita Mbae said nothing had been allocated for empowerment of the youth. “As the youth committee chair, a document that gives Youth, Sports and Social Services only Sh11m is not a good and I cannot support it,” said Mr Mutwiri. Muthambi MCA Wilson Nyaga said the executive had exaggerated allocation for infrastructure, especially roads despite ward representatives’ warning. YOUTH “We discussed about allocation ceilings and advised the executive, but it has not honoured our advice,” said Mr Nyaga. DISPENSARIES Ganga ward MCA Peterson Mwirigi said allocating Sh30 million to only six dispensaries in the entire county leaving others without a coin was not fair, and suggested each ward should be given Sh3m to fund the health centres. Mukothima ward MCA Mwenda Gataya said the money allocated for fish and rice farming should be re-allocated to coffee, tea, and green grams which are farmed in the region. “There is no fish and rice farming in our county,” said Mr Mwenda. Nominated MCA Asumpta Mukwanjeru, who represents the disabled, said the budget had not considered those living with various forms of disabilities. Defending the allocations, the Majority Leader Godfrey Murithi said the funds have been allocated according to the set ceilings. The county Speaker David Mbaya directed the relevant committees to harmonise the budget in consultation with stakeholders and report back to the House on June 12.  