The call by acting Amani National Congress (ANC) Secretary-General Barrack Muluka to dissolve Nasa has escalated the war within the party. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi on Monday dismissed the call, saying Nasa is strong and that it will remain intact because it is an idea he conceived ahead of the 2017 general election. “Nasa is intact and strong. It is ours and we should be talking about reclaiming it, but not throwing away the baby with the bath water,” Mr Mudavadi said. COALITION He added: “We are engaging coalition partners and others to see how we can make it stronger.” But speaking in Mombasa over the weekend, Mr Muluka said Nasa should fold up and allow affiliate parties to chart their own political future. His remarks have escalated the war between him and nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi, who he replaced as secretary-general. Mr Osotsi, however, contested Mr Muluka’s appointment. The case is pending in court. On Monday, Mr Osotsi defended Mr Mudavadi’s position on the coalition, and wondered “where Mr Muluka is getting the instructions to antagonise his own party boss.” “It is wrong for an individual whose role is not clear in Nasa to come and attempt to speak on its behalf, contradicting our party boss in the process,” Mr Osotsi said. yesterday at parliament buildings adding; “we will not allow him to derail Mr Mudavadi’s vision for Nasa and the country at large.” and scored the first after the Political Parties Dispute Tribunal quashed the Mr Muluka’s appointment. The Tribunal argued that the forum that approved Mr Muluka’s appointment was against the ANC and the Political Parties constitutions. However, Mr Muluka appealed the decision in the High Court and got stay orders pending the hearing and determination of the case he filed. The nominated MP maintained his loyalty to Mr Mudavadi saying he needs committed leaders around him and “not political brokers chasing their own selfish interests” to ensure his presidential bid remains on course. Raila Odinga's ODM, Kalonzo Musyoka's Wiper, Moses Wetang’ula's Ford-Kenya and Mudavadi’s ANC constitute Nasa. During the 2017 General Election, they supported Mr Odinga for presidency but their association seemed to have waned following the now famous handshake between President Kenyatta and Mr Odinga on March 9. The other Nasa leaders accused Mr Odinga of making the move unilaterally and have not had the best of moments. Mr Mudavadi and Mr Wetang’ula have proposed to merge their parties, a silent protest to Mr Odinga’s move. But Kalonzo has since embraced it even though he admitted that his party was not consulted saying that it is for the good of the country.   Did alliance die on the steps of Harambee House during the handshake deal?