Susan represents the brand of bold risk-takers. This certified lawyer, according to many, made an unpopular decision. She ditched law for fashion and travel. Her ‘rush’ decision was of course, opposed and ridiculed by family and friends alike. But she stuck to her guns. Her resilience to thank, Kaittany is now living her dream thirteen years on. Her business Posh Palace is one of the premier salon and spas in Nairobi.  What is the most remarkable thing you did as a young person? I started working at a travel agency while I was still in law school as a 19-year-old. By the time I was 22, I had travelled to more than 20 countries, and acquired a very rich perspective of life. Besides this, I was modelling and featuring in TV advertisements, which helped me to pay my bills as a student.  You abandoned law for fashion and travel. Wasn’t this a costly gamble? It was, and I received a thorough beating for it. People close to me felt that I had wasted a prestigious career for an unpredictable and less attractive pursuit. I have an outgoing personality that I felt would clash with the rigid nature of the practice of law. I hate being trapped in anything, and law for me was sort of a dead end which would curtail my manoeuvres and growth. Travel and fashion on the other hand would al-low me to constantly evolve into something new. It was a massive sacrifice, but I was brave to do it.  What do you think is the biggest misconception people harbour about careers? That you have to go to school to become a professional in any given area. Professionalism cannot be taught in a class setting. I am now a professional in travel and fashion with more than 15 years’ worth of experience, by virtue of having put in hard work.  Basing on your own experiences, what are the most dominant shortcomings for young entrepreneurs? At 23, many people will underplay your ability and potential to deliver no matter how good you are. There is also the temptation to push one’s luck hoping to achieve instant success. While you should be hungry for success as an entrepreneur, long-term success takes time to build. Capital though, is the biggest hurdle for young entrepreneurs. There may be several funds and loans available, but it is never easy to obtain such loans, one of the reasons being the high eligibility threshold set by most loaning entities. Banks, for instance, are wary of investing in youth without collateral, which is understandable seeing as they are also in business.  How did you address these challenges as a young entrepreneur? I utilised what little savings I had. Thankfully, my family would occasionally tide me over. Secondly, I was willing to start small and embrace slow growth. At no point was I afraid to step out of social circles that forced me to live under the impression of success when I had none. It was a painful but necessary decision that saved my business.  Have you ever read a book that influenced you? Yes. The Monk who sold his Ferrari by John Sharma. The book has taught me to live in the moment and to stop worrying about my future and past as such worries often distract one from enjoying the present moment. I have learnt to take time to meditate, to control what goes in-to my mind and heart and master my emotions. This is the one book that you don’t outgrow; the lessons remain relevant throughout your career and life.  Would you rather you had studied a different course? No. The knowledge of law is a fundamental requirement in all aspects of human life; in business, family matters and even in employment. A will, an employment contract and even a partnership deed are all com-mon legal documents that people interact with all the time. In other words, law is a basic requirement in day-to-day life.  What would you say to a young person hoping to start a business? Grit, honesty and staying grounded are virtues you must possess as a business person. Losses, cash flow issues and disputes with partners are synonymous with most new enterprises. You must, therefore, be tenacious to wrestle with these challenges. When one attempt flops, ask yourself: How badly do I want to succeed? The courage to bounce back is what separates those who triumph from those who fail. Secondly, don’t change your lifestyle too soon. If possible, do not change at all. Rather than spend money to gratify appetite for luxury, in-vest more in your business. It is harder to live in the bubble of illusory success than in real success. Thirdly, in business, you are as good as your word; you must be truly honest and trustworthy.  Tell us what you are proudest about in your career. I am a subtotal of all the mistakes, experiences and decisions, painful, uniformed or crazy that I have made along the way. Every experience prepares you for your next bigger and more amazing experience. I would not replace a single brick in what I have built over the years. As I approach 35, I feel as though I am starting all over again.   Dr Kizzie Shako is the only female police surgeon in the country.