The KCB "Road to Karen Masters’’ golf series enters its home stretch with the fourth leg at the par 71 Nyali Golf and Country Club course this weekend, where a field of 150 drawn from most of the clubs in the Coast region will play. At stake in addition to the fabulous prizes will be six slots in the KCB Karen Masters Pro-Am set for Karen Country Club on July 17. So far, players from Ruiru, Limuru, and Eldoret have already booked a place in the Pro-Am, a curtain-riser to the Sunshine Tour-sanctioned Karen Masters which marks its second year. During the first leg at Ruiru, Chris Kiai beat a huge field of 273 golfers, to claim the top spot and will now lead five other qualifiers to Karen. Leading the Limuru and Eldoret teams will be Christopher Young and Japheth Kiprono. Among those draw at Nyali this weekend, will be the big hitters George Munyao, Evans Manono, William Kaguta, and Charles Rob. Also eyeing the six slots include club chairman Keli Muindi, and others like Philip Mbugua, Joseph Oluoch, Dinesh Sasan and former captain and chairman of the club Gurbux Singh, who is also the Kenya Golf Union(KGU) Coast representative. The line-up in the ladies section include Mombasa Golf Club chairman Jane Githere, Terry Odoo, Truphena Oyaro, and Alice Wahome. With the on-going rains in Mombasa, the Nyali course, a true championship course, is likely to be playing long and very challenging. The par 72 Ruiru Sports Club course is all set to stage the inaugural “London Golf’’ supported by golfers and professionals from Nyandarua County. The event has attracted a field of 185 golfers. Among the players drawn in the competition, christened “London Golf” to symbolise the plush highlands associated with Nyandarua County, will be players from Nyahururu led by their chairman, who is also the Nyandarua County assemble speaker, Ndegwa Wahome. Leading the campaign among the locals will Willy Kagicha, who emerged the overall winner in last weekend’s Accountants Golf day. To take him on, will be golfers like Kimani Munyua, Alex Machocho, Benard Ngore and club captain Peter Mwaura. A stiff competition is also anticipated in the ladies section where on-form Teresia Wainaina, Winnie Kamau, and Pauline Mungai are expected to put up a strong show. "It’s one of its kind and it is promising a refreshing treat for golfers with an enhanced category of prizes. It will be a great engagement platform for the county residents and professionals expected to gather at the event," said captain Mwaura. Convened by former captain and current Secretary Antony Kamau “Tosh” and a slew of other golfers from Nyandarua County, the event has recerved a support from Kenyan Alliance Insurance Company. Still in the county of Kiambu, the par 72 Thika Sports Club course will host the Level Handicap Golf tournament. This is an event initiated in 2015 by members who had the motivation to play and reward good golf. Good golf in this context is defined as a player playing to his or her handicap or better. The group has a membership of 27 led by Kenya Army retired Lieutenant General Jackson Waweru. Club captain Chris Kinuthia said every golfer who played to his handicap, would get a gift. He added that, besides rewarding good golf, the initiative had also assisted the green keeper by sanding a couple of bunkers. It has also enabled members to improve on their game.  