Slain international rugby player Mike Okombe was killed by his girlfriend after an argument that arose from a truth and dare game during a birthday party drove him wild, a Nakuru court was told Thursday. Mr Vincent Omondi, a witness, told the court events that led to the killing of the rugby star emanated from the argument resulting from the game they were playing at the night party. Mr Omondi said he witnessed one of the suspects, Ms Maryann Mumbi, stab Mr Okombe in the chest using a kitchen knife, leading to his death. “We were seated round a table in the dining room playing a game of asking and answering questions. An argument ensued, forcing some of us to move out and leave the deceased in the house. He, however, followed us and tried to beat Ms Mumbi, before they were separated,” said the witness. FURIOUS Mr Omondi, who is a brother to the second accused — Calvin Okoth — told the court that Mr Okombe became furious and wanted to pick a fight with everyone who was within the compound. “As I was holding back my brother from fighting the deceased, I saw Okombe stand up and charge towards Ms Mumbi, who in turn picked a knife and stabbed him in his chest. Mr Okombe turned round holding his chest before he fell down. When he turned upside down, we were shocked to see him bleeding,” added Mr Omondi. OUT ON BOND Ms Mumbi and Mr Okoth are accused of killing the former rugby star on November 4, 2017. They are out on Sh 500,000 bond each. The court heard that the second accused had organised his daughter’s birthday party and invited friends, including the witness, at his house in Kiamunyi. Mr Omondi said his brother called him in the afternoon requesting he delivers drinks in preparation for the party. He said he arrived in the house an hour later and they began drinking as they waited for other guests to arrive. They were later joined by three others including his wife, Ms Milkah Njoki, Mr Okombe and Mr Moses Aketch. Ms Mumbi joined the group in the company of others and they continued drinking and playing. The fun was, however, cut short by the argument, which infuriated Mr Okombe, forcing the group to divide. RESTRAINED After he was restrained from beating Ms Mumbi, Mr Okombe began quarrelling Mr Eric Mochache, who decided to leave him and return to the sitting room. He was followed by the witness as the suspects and the deceased went to the other side of the house. “Mr Mochache and I decided to load a game on the Play station as the rest kept quarrelling outside. After a short while, I saw Ms Mumbi enter the kitchen and come out with a knife and a tong. She then went outside,” said Mr Omondi. The witness said he rushed outside when he heard a commotion. Mr Omondi said he found Mr Okombe pinned down and being beating with a club by the second accused. The witness said Mr Okombe pushed Mr Okoth away, stood and charged towards Ms Mumbi who in turn stabbed him. They rushed him to Valley Hospital in Nakuru, where he was pronounced dead on arrival. The testimony was, however, challenged by Ms Mumbi’s lawyer Kamau Chomba. He questioned the witnesses’ credibility, saying he was too drunk to understand the events of the fateful day. Mr Chomba dismissed Mr Omondi’s testimony, which he termed an afterthought, saying it was thus not reliable. The hearing of the case will proceed on September 26.   Ms Mumbi also accompanied police to the crime scene.