The government has allocated Sh400 billion to Jubilee's Big Four agenda, which is the main focus of President Uhuru Kenyatta in his second and final term in office. The four pillars are manufacturing, universal healthcare, affordable housing, and food security. The government has allocated Sh44.6 billion for universal health coverage while Sh6.5 billion will go towards the provision of affordable and decent housing for all Kenyans. FOOD SECURITY The Treasury has allocated Sh20.25 billion to enhance food and nutrition security to all Kenyans by 2022, and Sh2.4 billion to support value addition and raise the manufacturing sector’s share to gross domestic product to 15 per cent by 2022. Although Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry said the Big Four agenda will largely be achieved through partnership with the private sector and development partners, the government has also increased taxes in other sectors in a bid to raise money. For instance, mobile money transaction fee popularly known as M-Pesa has been increased from the current 10 per cent to 12 per cent. The tax for imported vehicles with over 2500cc has also been increased to 30 per cent. AFFORDABLE HOUSING Mr Rotich said the revenue raised from the two avenues and other sectors will be used in funding the provision of affordable housing and universal healthcare. The CS said achievement of the four pillars is expected to accelerate economic growth. “In order to achieve the Big Four, all of us will need to put our differences aside, pull in the same direction, and work towards a common goal. This budget provides us with an opportunity to begin to walk the talk,” Mr Rotich told MPs. The CS also noted that eradication of corruption is one of the biggest means of achieving the four pillars, hence the strengthening of a multi-agency team tasked with the fight against graft in order to assist in the recovery of stolen public assets. “During the next five years, I will dedicate the energy, time and resources of my administration to the Big Four,” President Kenyatta said during last year’s Jamhuri Day celebrations.  