IN MOSCOW Russia’s loss to Uruguay in the last match of Group ‘A’ played on Monday at Samara Stadium in South Eastern Russia left a bad taste in the mouth of home fans here, but a sterner test still lies ahead for the hosts in the knock-out stage. Russia, who finished second in Group ‘A’ with six points, three behind leaders Uruguay, face Group ‘A’ leaders and 2010 world champions Spain in last 16 on Sunday at Moscow’s Luzhniki Stadium. After beating Saudi Arabia 5-0 and Egypt 3-1 in their first two matches of the tournament, high-scoring Russia were brought back down to earth on Monday with a 3-0 drubbing in the hands of Uruguay with goals from Luis Suarez, Denis Cheryshev (own goal) and Edinson Cavani. Uruguay took everything in the match against 10-man Russia, Oscar Tabarez’s team becoming the first to reach the knockout stage with maximum points while goalkeeper Fernando Muslera earning 100th international cap in style. “We may have been reduced to 10 players but as the home team, it is painful losing 3-0 after winning our first two matches. One-nill is acceptable but not this,” Dimitry Smolov, a Moscow-based painter said after the match. “We are proud as the home team. Such results are not acceptable,” the 34-year-old supporter of CSKA Moscow added. But it is Villarreal midfielder Cheryshev and CSKA Moscow defender Shergey Ignashevich’s performances on the night that left Russian fans deflated after such a good start in the tournament. With Luis Suarez preparing to take a free-kick just outside Russia’s 22-yard box in the 10th minute, Uruguay strikers inexplicably tricked Ignashevich out of position in a six-man wall, leaving a gap for Suarez to send a low shot that beat goalkeeper Igor Arkinfeev for the first goal. Cheryshev’s own moment of shame would arrive minutes later. The CSKA Moscow midfielder who had been Russia’s main attacking threat deflected Diego Laxalt’s shot into his own net in the 23rd minute and was sacrificed on 30 minutes after defender Igor Smolnikov was shown a second yellow card in the match for lunging onto Laxalt and was sent off. Cavani finished the job for Uruguay in the 89th minute, lurching onto a rebound after Diego Godin had headed the ball from a corner ball.  