A section of Narok leaders have opposed Deputy President William Ruto’s directive to 2,400 illegal settlers of the Maasai Mau Forest to vacate their homes within the water tower. The leaders, led by Narok North Member of Parliament Moitalel ole Kenta and former Transport Licensing Board chairman Hassan ole Kamwaro, on Wednesday opposed the move by the Deputy President, saying the Mau block is trust land, which belongs to the Maasai community and held in trust on their behalf by the county government. Last weekend, Mr Ruto, while on a two-day tour of the area, said the government plans to issue title deeds to Mau Forest settlers and rebuild 15 schools that were demolished in the 2005 eviction. ILLEGAL OCCUPANTS However, those who have encroached on the key water tower will be evicted. Mr Ruto said the government has allocated Sh60 million to ensure the schools re-open. Speaking at Sogoo High School in Narok South, the Deputy President supported a planned eviction of “illegal occupants,” adding that environmental conservation was crucial for the country. “In the Mau Forest we have a clear cutline. All those beyond the cutline, who have encroached on the forest, must be evicted. “Mimi sitaki mchezo” (I am not joking), we agreed about this. Only those who have not encroached on the forest will be issued with title deeds,” said the DP. These remarks have raised political temperatures in Narok County. FORESTLAND Mr Kenta wants the 2003 Ndung’u Commission report on irregular allocations of public land to be implemented immediately. “In relation to forests, the report stated that all excisions of forestland, which were made contrary to the provisions of the Forests Act and the Government Lands Act, should be cancelled," said Mr Kenta. On his part, Mr Kamwaro termed Kenya Forest Service’s failure to evict people from the forest as hypocritical. “We will not allow the DP to meddle with our land. He should keep off Narok issues. He should know that Mau is our birthright and we cannot sell it,” said Mr Kamwaro. ILLEGAL SETTLERS Speaking separately, county Maasai Council of Elders chairman Francis ole Elenooseli said they will not allow further invasion of the forest, which was conserved by their forefathers for future generations. He called on donors to come in and help compensate the illegal settlers. Mr Elenooseli said Mau forest’s preservation is a matter of life and death for residents of Narok County and they will protect it at all costs. In 2008, Mr Ruto led a campaign against former Prime Minister Raila Odinga’s push to have squatters out of the forest. Mr Odinga argued that squatters were destroying the water catchment.   Community says planned eviction was against orders of African court issued on May 26, 2017.