After spending a week in remand, more than 40 suspects accused of swindling Kenyans out of hundreds of millions of shillings through the National Youth Service jumped out of prison vehicles and walked into a Nairobi courtroom on Tuesday expecting to be granted bail and head home. Their relatives had carried money to post bail or were ready to stand surety for their loved ones. But it was not to be, because Chief Magistrate Douglas Ogoti sent them back to remand, telling them they will stay there until the cases against them are concluded. Neither the suspects’ forlorn faces nor the murmurs of their lawyers could change the magistrate’s heart. Mr Ogoti said that, although the suspects are presumed innocent, economic crimes are well-designed and calculated schemes done for profit, unlike murder, which he said is a lesser crime. ECONOMIC OFFENCE “Economic offences are a class apart and need to be approached differently in the matter of bail,” said Mr Ogoti. “The economic offence, having deep-rooted conspiracies and involving huge losses of public funds, needs to be viewed seriously and considered as a grave offence affecting the economy of the country as a whole, and thereby posing serious threats to the financial health of the country which, in my opinion and finding, can lead to anarchy, threat to peace, and threat to national security.” Mr Ogoti said people should be made aware that there will be legal consequences if they plunder public resources, and that bail is only automatic where offences attract only a fine, or where the jail term is a maximum of six months. Equating corruption to economic sabotage, he said it steals funds meant for the greater good of the nation, and also leads to denial of fundamental rights and freedoms as envisaged in Chapter 4 of the Constitution. BASIC RIGHTS “Those actions deny Wanjiku (the common citizen) basic rights, including good health, education, employment, food, and shelter, and lead to death,” he said. The magistrate said that, in deciding a matter on bail, one should look at the nature of the offence, the right and fundamental freedoms of an individual, the need to ensure that their right to enjoy their fundamental freedoms is not infringed, as well as the limitations to such rights and freedoms. “Does equality to law mean the same thing as equity before the law?” he posed. “The accused persons are people of different means, but they face a joint charge. Can the bail terms be staggered without being deemed discriminative?” Some of the senior government officials facing charges of corruption include former Youth Affairs Permanent Secretary Lillian Omollo, who is still admitted at Kenyatta National Hospital, former NYS director-general Richard Ndubai, accounting and procurement officers at both the Treasury and NYS. They are facing the charges alongside businesspeople who allegedly received monies for goods not supplied. SPEEDY HEARING Mr Ogoti said the court has made plans for the speedy hearing of the cases, starting with a pre-trial conference tomorrow morning. The suspects, through their lawyers, asked for a copy of the ruling to enable them appeal the decision. Mr Ogoti also directed the police to investigate claims that persons believed to be police officers had raided the Naivasha home of the Ngirita family, whose four family members are facing charges. He said a report should be filed in court within seven days. Through lawyer Cliff Ombetta, the family said the home was raided on Monday. The magistrate also directed prison authorities to supply medication to two suspects, Mr James Thuita Nderitu who suffers from a heart condition, and Ms Yvonne Wanjiku Ngugi who is asthmatic. MULTIPLE CHARGES The 42 suspects face multiple charges, including conspiracy to commit economic crimes, failure to comply with the law regarding protection of public funds, and abuse of office for State officials. Three suspects – Anthony Wamiti and Peter Kimani, the directors of Arkroad Holdings Limited, who allegedly received Sh24.8 million for goods that were never supplied, and Josephat Njoroge – presented themselves to court but they were thrown out. They will be charged today after the court directed that they be taken to Gigiri Police Station.   Some of the companies which did not supply goods received huge payments.