Political leaders from Mount Kenya have vowed to support Deputy President William Ruto in his bid for presidency in 2022 on condition that he will pick a running mate from the region. Speaking during a ceremony to commission a newly constructed governor's office in Tharaka -Nithi at Kathwana, the leaders said they will work as a block to support Mr Ruto and to secure DP position. The leaders, Governor Muthomi Njuki,  Senator Mithika Linturi (Meru) MPs,  Patrick Munene (Chuka/Igambangombe), Kareke Mbiuki (Maara),  Gichunge Kabeabea (Tigania East), Moses Kirema (Imenti Central)  and Halima Mucheke (nominated) said it was the time for the region to unite and strategize for 2022 politics. Mr Linturi said the three counties,  Tharaka -Nithi,  Meru and Embu have at least a total of 1.7 million votes which gives them a big bargaining power in the national politics. "Because we have the numbers,  we have the voice to demand a position in the national leadership, " said Mr Linturi. He said with the region's  leadership  declaration to push for the agenda,  they  will start holding meetings to strategise on how to ensure that the  dream is not killed by politicians from other regions. He however said that there must be unity among the region politicians to achieve their 2022 political agenda. He challenged the Tharaka -Nithi leaders to put aside their political differences even for the development of the county. MP Mbiuki noted that the region has already fronted Senator Prof Kithure Kindiki for the DP Rutos running mate in 2022 and asked leaders in the large Mount Kenya region to support them. "Already we have fronted Prof Kindiki who has worked with DP for a long time to be his running mate in year 2022,"said Mr Mbiuki. Governor Njuki asked the central Kenya region leaders to reciprocate their long-time political support by joining them. He said it was surprising that they campaign as a block but things change when the elections are done. "We urge our brothers in Central Kenya to reciprocate our long-time supporting in 2022," said Mr Njuki. He said it was also discouraging to see that the Mount Kenya region has a strong bond during campaign but when it comes to sharing of the national cake and especially executive positions and projects,  each county lobbies solely. MP Kabeabea and Munene said the region's leaders were not ashamed of being branded part of team "Tangatanga"  for the DP Ruto on condition that he will consider the region in 2022. Embu deputy governor David Kariuki and his Meru county counterpart Titus Ntociu maintained that 2022 was time for the region to produce at least deputy president. Mr Kariuki said they comfortably  bank on their unity and number of votes to lobby for the DP position. Senator did not attend the ceremony as had accompanied Mr Ruto for a meeting in Muranga county while county's women representative is outside the country on an official duty.  