The family, relatives and friends of a high ranking Kenyan referee barred from officiating at this year’s Fifa World Cup over bribery allegations are agonising over the development. Shock and disappointment engulfed Nyamtiro village in Kuria East, Migori county after the news broke early Thursday morning that Kenya’s only representative to the 2018 World Cup will not be going to Russia after he was filmed taking a bribe by a Ghanaian journalist. Assistant referee Aden Marwa has been struck off the list of match officials for the 2018 Fifa World Cup in Russia, following a video that aired on BBC on Wednesday night showing the Kenyan official allegedly receiving Sh60,000 as bribe from a Ghanaian undercover journalist Anas Aremeyaw Anas. Marwa was among the 63 assistant referees set to officiate at the upcoming world football event in Russia. Some of the family members who spoke to Nation Sport said they could not believe what was unfolding before their eyes. “I can’t believe that this has happened. It is very unfortunate and the family is in gloom,” said Julius Range Chacha, Marwa’s brother. He defended his brother as “a man of principles who cannot be manipulated to bend the rules in order to favour a certain side.” “I believe these are mere allegations and that the Ghanaian journalist who approached him was on a malicious mission. It is sad that he has ruined such a great opportunity for my brother,” added Range. Tobias Marwa Range, another relative, said: “This is so bad. We are proud of Aden. He has put our village and community on the world map. We know that what has happened is the work of sinister people. We know him as an honest man who cannot do what he has been accused of. The truth will come out soon.” His parents were too shocked to speak to the media. Scores of Nyamtiro residents said that their World Cup mood has been dampened. “We were eager to watch the World Cup mostly because of Marwa. With what has happened, we are too disappointed to watch it,” said Philip Boke, a resident. At Komotobo Secondary School, where Marwa, teaches, the mood was the same. Fellow teachers expressed their disappointment and argued that Marwa has never been corrupt. “We are saddened by this turn of events. We were eagerly waiting to watch our man in Russia but it is unfortunate that this has happened. We know Marwa as straightforward and honest and should a thorough investigation be conducted, he will be vindicated,” said Nyamori Chacha, a teacher.   He was among the 63 assistant referees set to officiate at next month's showpiece.