Take a walk in Kandara, Murang’a County and it will not be long before you find Negus Shiriki farm. All you need is to ask for the direction to “kwa Marasta”. On this day, we accompany guests who have come to learn about environment-friendly agriculture and traditional medicinal plants. The visitors are from the Slow Food International, an NGO that promotes indigenous agriculture. What greets one are sweet potato vines and cassava. The three-and-a-half acre farm is run by a group of seven Rastafarian families. “This red banana is indigenous, has little sugar and is good for diabetics,” Ras Abasa, one of the group leaders, says. “This is desmodium. Though it is mostly used as animal feed, we eat it.” Then there is the red castor tree, whose seeds, we are told, are used for birth control. Among other crops grown here are mint, ginger, wheat grass, sugarcane, mangoes and herbs. “We used to be an art group in Kibra,” says Ng’anga Njuguna, the group chairman. “We prefer naturally grown foods as we believe fertiliser and pesticides are enemies of nature.” Since settling here in 2011, the group has been producing and supplying dried herbs, chia seeds, cane juice and medicinal plants to the community. “Our average monthly profit from selling vegetables and herbs is Sh10,000 but this will improve soon,” Abasa says. Though individuals and corporates do not pay to tour the farm, the group plans to get into agri-tourism. Initially, the community was suspicious of the activities of the group, fearing members would grow cannabis and other drugs. However, the villagers have come to appreciate the work of Negus Shiriki farm. Slow Food International President Carlo Petrini hailed the group for its eco-friendly practices. The organisation supports about 400 organic gardens in Kenya, and 4,000 on the continent, most of which are run by communities. “Our philosophy is embedded in combining agriculture and sociology so that as people practice organic agriculture, they also create cultural bonds,” Petrini said. While agribusiness is part of what Slow Food promotes, the main focus is to enhance food security for all, then extend to economic growth. Experts have urged the continent to embrace organic agriculture. Ann Maina, the National Coordinator at Biodiversity International, says the young generation must learn to produce indigenous foods instead of being obsessed with fast foods, “which have few nutrients and are harmful to their health”. She added that there are many opportunities in organic agriculture as many people are going back to traditional foods.   CAROLINE GICHUKI-MUGO runs Techfarm (Kenya) Tours and Travel, an agri-tourism firm that recently organised a trip for over 40 farmers to Israel.