Pregnant mothers in Kitui, Kisumu, Migori and Kakamega counties will get personalised maternal health care in a Sh6.7 billion ($66 million) project that seeks to reduce maternal, newborn and infant deaths in the regions. Every expectant mother in the four counties will be identified and put on an elaborate health watch. They will receive weekly support and advice ranging from quality nutrition, routine medical check-ups to monitor their pregnancies and ensure safe deliveries. The five-year project dubbed Afya Halisi is funded by USAid and aims to reduce preventable maternal and child deaths by helping rural women and girls to access quality health services in order to live better and more productive lives. According to USAid Country director John Bernon, the project will be implemented by Jhpiego - an international non-profit health organisation affiliated to United States’ Johns Hopkins University, in conjunction with Save the Children and Population Services Kenya. “We want to ensure that women have healthy pregnancies and give birth safely; that children will have the nutritious food they need to develop and learn; and that babies thrive well beyond their fifth birthday” said Mr Bernon. He said these four counties were selected because they are among those with the highest health needs in the country where pregnant mothers are more vulnerable. To achieve increased access, availability and use of quality health services for rural women, the three implementing partners will seek to strengthen the capacity of medical workers and health facilities in the target counties to offer better maternal services. “Within these counties, we are prioritizing the most vulnerable and marginalized populations in hard-to-reach areas. This will ultimately improve national level health outcomes and help Kenya attain its goal of universal health coverage,” Mr Bermon said at Zombe market in Kitui during the launch of Afya Halisi project. Ms Ruth Odhiambo, the project coordinator said the Afya Halisi will also focus on adolescent and young people’s sexual and reproductive health. “Our aim is to do all we can to ensure a healthy start for all mothers and newborns as well as ensure our youth are healthy and in school” said Ms Odhiambo adding they will also partner with the Ministry of Health This, Ms Odhiambo said will strengthen the overall health service delivery for the counties and to provide targeted improvement in the overall quality of health services across the country. Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu said the programme will help bridge the existing huge gaps in delivery of healthcare in Kitui where residents walk long distances to access medical services. Mrs Ngilu said the Afya Halisi project was timely intervention as it will boost her administration’s plans to roll out the County Health Insurance Cover (Chic) where residents will enjoy affordable medical services in all public facilities.  