There is little sign of royalty and grandeur about his disposition as Peter Mumia II goes about his duties, serving as the traditional King of the Wanga community in Kakamega County. The 66-year-old King goes about his work with ease and simplicity. He prefers donning Kaunda suits with a hat when not at official functions. No entourage of bodyguards and aides shadow him as he attends to visitors or performs other official functions at his official seat of power at Eshiembekho Nabongo Cultural Centre in Matungu sub-county. ROYALTY An emblem of the Wanga Kingdom is inscribed at the entrance to the King’s office with the words: “Office of His Royal Highness.” His official workspace does not reflect opulence attached to royalty. A set of couches, seats and two glass tables and a flat screen television set complete the décor of his modest work place. Peter Mumia II was installed as King in 1974 after the death of his father, Nabongo Shitawa when he was just 22 years old. Mr Mumia was then working as an accountant, administrator and sales manager for different firms in Nairobi but took up his duties fully as the Wanga king after he retired in 2004. “Our role is purely traditional and cultural. We rely on support from the community and other small donations from well-wishers to sustain our operations,” King Mumia II explained during an interview at his office. Unlike his counterparts in Swaziland and Uganda, Mr Mumia is not entitled to any salary benefits from the government despite being active in promoting cultural activities of his populous Wanga community. Mr Mumia has been in the past been under pressure from the community to contest a political seat but declined to do so. “If I took up a political office, that would mean I have to relinquish my position as the King. I have no desire to contest a political office and I’m happy to serve my people in my current capacity,” said Mr Mumia. BALANCE It has been a delicate balancing act for the Wanga King in his relationship with politicians who have viewed him with suspicion in the region because of the influence he wields at the grassroots. He said some politicians have been uneasy with him, fearing he would take sides in a political contests and undermine their support. “I have therefore steered clear of involvement in political campaigns that might portray me as a leader taking sides to influence the community’s support one way or the other,” said Mr Mumia. Equally puzzling was the King's dalliance with former Libyan strongmen Muammar Gaddafi before he was deposed from power and assassinated. King Mumia said without elaborating that Mr Gaddafi was a close friend and they frequently spoke to each other on issues affecting the continent. Back at the Nabongo Cultural Centre, students from different parts of the country and East Africa region frequently tour the Nabongo cultural centre to get an opportunity to interact with the elders from the Wanga community and meet King Mumia 11. “I get a lot visits from students in primary, secondary, colleges and universities who want to learn more about the Wanga Kingdom and its Kings. The students come from as far as America and Canada,” said Mr Mumia. CEREMONIES The King attends funerals in villages and other important cultural celebrations to try and use the opportunity make important announcements on issues that affect the values and traditions in the community. Because of his position as a traditional King, Mr Mumia has been picked as patron of the Luhya Council of Elders in western Kenya region. The council of elders is chaired by former cabinet minister Philip Masinde. The Nabongo has widely travelled, touring different countries to meet and interact with other fellow traditional kings. “Our government does not pay traditional leaders. We are currently lobbying the government to consider enacting legislation to empower traditional rulers to be able to carry out their duties unhampered by financial hitches,” said King Mumia II. A council of 100 elders drawn from the different Wanga clans serve as advisors of the King and have been assigned specific roles to help him perform his duties. It is not unusual to meet Mumia II driving himself around town all by himself or taking a walk down the street without attracting much attention from people going about their daily chores. At a shrine, the remains of former kings including Nabongo Mumia have been buried there to form part of the attraction for visitors to the centre. Last month, seven royal and traditional kings from Africa came to Kenya to for a meeting TO chart out the best practices of promoting peace and national cohesion to end political conflict that has ignited war and driven hundreds of families form their homes. Those who attended were the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Ghana, Chad, Mali, South Africa, Central African Republic and Kenya. The traditional leaders were hosted by Nabongo Peter Mumia II during the two-day summit at the Nabongo Cultural Centre. The summit was chaired by His Majesty Mwami Godfroid Munonga, King of the Bayeke Kingdom from DRC. The conference addressed the role of traditional leaders in democratic governance system and peace making process across in Africa. The traditional leaders agreed to interact closely to be able to promote what they termed as “progressive traditional and local governance systems” - to be able to uplift the economic well-being of their communities. SUMMIT “The timing of the summit is critical to Kenya after the country went through the most difficult period of a protracted election campaigns,” said King Munonga. The visiting traditional leaders were full of praise for opposition leader Raila Odinga after the handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta. “We would like to honour Mr Odinga for his efforts in promoting peace and unity by reaching to current and former leaders in the country,” King Turboi Amenya of Aflao Kingdom in Ghana. King Amenya said the greed for power and lack of visionary leadership was the biggest hurdle the continent was facing, leading to conflicts. He commented Mr Odinga, the opposition chief for crusading to promote reconciliation and peaceful co-existence among Kenyan communities after the country was rocked by post-election violence after the 2007/8 disputed polls. “Mr Odinga is an influential leader who has promoted peace and dialogue in the country. His decision to accept to work with President Uhuru Kenyatta in building bridges to promote peace and reconciliation after last year’s polls is commendable,” said King Amenya. King Mumia, who is the forum treasurer said the visit has significant value to the Wanga Kingdom. “The visit has opened up exchange programmes that will see various traditional leaders meet often with the aim of bringing Africa to its heritage and promote national cohesion among African communities,” said King Mumia. The Wanga King is expected to travel to the DRC next month to attend a cultural festival among the Bayeke community.   Bunge la Haki says king has failed to articulate issues affecting his community.