IN MOSCOW Some seek a psychologist’s help to deal with it, others suffer silently but put on a tough face, hoping it will fade away. It seldom does. How players deal with pressure on the big stage can make or break their careers. Take Brazil’s Neymar for example. Having drawn their first match of 2018 Fifa World Cup Group ‘E’ 1-1 against Switzerland at Samara Arena on June 17, a star-studded Brazil were under pressure to deliver in their second match against Costa Rica. A lot was expected of the Selecao. After all, the five-time world champions are one of the tournament’s favourites and boast a star-studded squad with the world’s most expensive player in their ranks. Still, they are the only side to have played in every edition of the tournament since 1930, and that’s not all. Brazil is one of the best supported teams here in Russia, with a big and fiercely-loyal fan base that has been following them wherever their matches take them. And having drawn their first match, the Selecao needed their most important player Neymar more than ever. Two days before the match, reports from Selecao’s training base in the Russian Black Sea resort city of Sochi indicated that Neymar, who left Barcelona for Paris Saint-Germain a year ago on Sh27 billion transfer ($263 million), had limped out of training with injury. Come match day on Friday at St Petersburg, the Brazilian super star was in the starting line-up against hard-fighting Costa Rica side ranked 23rd globally. Neymar, who has returned to fitness after a foot operation three months ago, came close to scoring four times, and did everything but score. Then Philippe Coutinho put Brazil ahead in the first minute of extra time, sending Brazilian fans at the packed 65,000-seater stadium into a frenzy. Then the fans started crying out for more. Time was running out. TAPPED IT HOME In the last minute of time added on, Casemiro won the ball in midfield and looped it over to Jesus Navas who sent the ball goalwards from the right wing and Neymar tapped it home for a 2-0 scoreline in the 96th minute. With the goal, Neymar becomes Brazil’s third all-time top goal scorer with 56 goals behind Ronaldo (62) and Pele (77). At the final whistle, Neymar suffers an emotional outburst on the pitch. He kneels down, his face cupped in his hands and cries tears of joy while fans celebrated from Samara to Rio de Janeiro. He had just played his first full match since returning from injury, scoring in the process. And coach Tite defended Neymar’s celebration after the match. “The joy, the satisfaction, the pride, of representing the Brazil national team is a lot. So he has the responsibility, the joy, the pressure, and he has the courage to show it. Everyone shows it the way he can,” Tite said in his post-match press conference. Neymar’s reaction highlights the pressure stars go through in high-stakes matches. Like Neymar, Messi’s celebration after beating Nigeria 2-1 on Tuesday in their final Group ‘D’ match at St Petersburg depicted a man who has been relieved of a huge burden. Argentina captain Messi went into the match having missed a penalty as the 2014 World Cup losing finalists drew 1-1 with Iceland. Argentina lost their second group match 3-0 against Croatia and needed to beat second-placed Nigeria, who had beaten Iceland 2-1, to reach the last eight on four points. With Argentina staring at an early exit and Messi’s great rival Cristiano having scored four goals to put Portugal to the last 16, pressure was on Messi to deliver. So much was the pressure that when the teams were 1-1 which would have spelt Argentina’s elimination, Diego Maradona was seen in tears inside the stadium. When he scored his first goal of the tournament in the 14th minute and raised his hands high in the air, a burden had been lifted off his shoulders. He had just scored his first goal of the tournament. Marcos Rojo’s 86th minute goal was huge relief for Messi, Maradona and Argentina fans. Messi’s team mate Angel di Maria himself has confessed that he needed help from a counsellor to deal with criticism from Argentina’s demanding fans.  