As detectives investigate various individuals accused of corruption, we need to relook at ourselves and our moral compass as Kenyans. An average youth, shows a recent survey by the East African Institute, would not think twice about evading tax or taking a bribe as long as they do not end up in jail. About 35 per cent of the respondents said they would readily give or take a bribe. How unfortunate! The feeling has been emboldened by recent revelations of multi-billion-shilling scandals. At the National Youth Service, undeserving individuals were paid millions of shillings at the expense of genuine suppliers; at the National Cereals and Produce Board, unscrupulous traders locked out poor farmers who were meant to deliver their maize; and at Kenya Power, employees awarded tenders to their or relatives’ firms. EASIEST PATH TO RICHES While the grand theft of taxpayers’ money should worry us, the feeling among the youth that it is okay to be corrupt and the belief that corruption might be the easiest path to riches is even more worrying. It is extremely important for those who have been caught stealing from the public to be brought to book, and fast, but it is equally critical that we deter the future generation from thinking that it is okay to steal. And that is where the National Youth Service (NYS), formed in 1964, comes in. The service was meant to equip Kenyan youth with the requisite skills before they were let out to live their lives. It instilled in them discipline, a sense of duty and, above all, patriotism. HARD WORK It was an idea that, sadly, ground to a halt in the 1980s. We abandoned the route we had taken to shape our youth into, at the very least, appreciating the meaning of hard work. The NYS had hope of a revival when, in July 18, 2013, the Senate unanimously passed a Bill by then-Nominated Senator Beatrice Elachi (now Nairobi City County Speaker) to re-introduce compulsory national youth service training in Kenya. We should go back there. If we do not take charge of shaping the way our young people view an honest day’s work, we will be bringing up a generation of crooks — one that genuinely believes it is okay to steal. By hiving off the sharpest trainers and best aspects of the disciplined forces, we can pool resources for compulsory one-year training for university- and college-bound students. While they will not necessarily end up as soldiers, they will be taught honour, discipline and the sense of duty and hard work. SUCCESSFUL ELSEWHERE It has been done successfully elsewhere, with Israel being the best example. Ordinarily, all Israeli youth undergo military training. Those between 18-21 who choose not to go through the national youth service, working 30-40 hours a week over 12-24 months. They are taken through nursing, caring for the elderly, rehabilitation of drug users and public administration, among others — critical life skills that come in handy all their life. There has been similar success and consistency with the National Youth Service Corps in Nigeria and, closer to home, Rwanda’s Ingando (from kugandika — Kinyarwanda for going to stay in a place far from one’s home, often with a group, for a specific reason). NATIONAL COHESION Participants are taken far from their homes to live with people in those areas, which instils in them the love for others, understanding their culture and, most importantly, promotes religious and national cohesion. And while an NYS or paramilitary training will help to instil discipline and a sense of hard work in Kenyans, it is only the beginning. The corrupt must be punished severely to act as a deterrent to the culture. That is why the stand taken by President Uhuru Kenyatta is commendable. The political will that he has shown will go a long way in tackling corruption in the most effective way — teaching Kenyan youth that it does not pay to steal or be corrupt. Mr Njuki is the governor of Tharaka-Nithi County. njuki.m3363@gmail.com  