Thirdway Alliance party leader Ekuru Aukot has faulted the Church accusing it of failing to speak up against corrupt leaders and instead allowing politicians to use its podiums to defend ill-gotten wealth. Speaking during the 12th Upper Eastern Region Ecumenical Conference at Gitoro Convention centre on Thursday, Dr Aukot said by accepting money from politicians during church fundraisers, the clergy was helping corrupt individuals to legitimise their ill-gotten wealth. In his hard-hitting presentation during the conference organised by the National Council of Churches of Kenya (NCCK), Mr Aukot questioned church leaders’ decision to pull out of politics yet they engage in campaigns when electing their own officials. Mr Aukot said the church has a key role to play in guiding Kenyans on good morals, and to speak up against rampant corruption being witnessed in the country. “Politics is a way of life and you cannot convince me that you are not politicians. When you preach to your congregation you talk of them leading a good life. How can they enjoy life when money is being looted? “I have not heard the church speak up against corruption. You don’t even question why money is being stolen. You must stand up and say no to the corruption that is killing this nation,” he said. However, the NCCK last month waded into the national conversation on corruption when it proposed a one-year amnesty for corrupt individuals to declare and surrender all illegally acquired funds in one of its most recent radical proposals to deal with graft. The church said those who fail to take up the offer should be jailed for life, and the funds they acquired corruptly be recovered from them. LAW CHANGE On Thursday, Mr Auko differed with NCCK’s push for constitutional amendment to expand the Executive to create three more posts for a prime minister and two deputies. Speaking earlier, NCCK Secretary General Reverend Peter Karanja said new the positions should be created without degrading the presidency. But Mr Aukot said inclusivity would be achieved even with the current Constitution, especially in the appointment of cabinet secretaries and principal secretaries. “If the Constitution is followed and the spirit of inclusivity adhered to in the appointment of 22 CSs and PSs, all communities in Kenya would be represented in the Executive. I don’t see the sense in expanding the Executive to serve the interests of a few individuals,” he said. The two-day conference is attended by the NCCK clergy from the upper eastern region. Also present during the opening ceremony was Bishop Lawi Imathiu, who is in the 14-member taskforce appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Orange Democratic Movement leader Raila Odinga to unite the country.   It appears they have been taken over by the cartels and tax evaders.