I am a contract employee at a PR firm based in Thika. Each time I contribute ideas during our weekly brainstorming sessions, some senior members of my team immediately shoot them down. Twice, my suggested concepts, which had been trashed, have been tested and even implemented without involving me. This is my intellectual work, which I genuinely feel should be credited to me. How should I address this matter, and is it worthwhile to attend meetings where nobody cares about my input?  Being a contract employee does not make you inferior to anyone as you seem to imply. You have a valid engagement and assigned duties which you are expected to deliver despite the challenges. Not attending meetings is a not  an option. This will lead to a misconduct that can easily terminate your contract. To get your ideas listened to, and become part of their implementation, try this. Be positive especially when you mean to correct a current or past practice as your team members may see this as criticism of their work and get defensive. Put your ideas in writing and  circulate your write up to all present in the meeting for record. Be clear and precise in your suggestions and where possible, give examples that may further simplify your ideas. If you are cut off as you speak, ask to be allowed to finish your statement. If someone jumps in as you speak to paraphrase your idea, get back after they finish and emphasise your suggestion. Instead of feeling bad that your intellectual work is being implemented without giving you credit, buy into the idea of team success, looking at the bigger picture. Before you feel discouraged, remember that you are employed to perform certain tasks, generating ideas and concepts included. It is shameful for your colleagues to get credit for your ideas, but I can assure you this is short term and usually a practice of insecure managers. Outsmart them by finding out how your previous concepts ended up being approved and executed without your knowledge. When you understand the process, use it for your new ideas from start to execution. Align yourself with good colleagues with whom you will critique, support and protect each other’s work. Be very deliberate about whom you choose to involve in your career growth.   Forgive yourself for being a little bit jealous of your workmate, we all find ourselves here once in a while.