This year’s Kenya Music Festival, which is the largest annual artistic event organised by the Ministry of Education, has a new category named Big Four Agenda. In this class, participants are presenting choral verses with themes based on the core values of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four blueprint which focuses on manufacturing, affordable housing, food security and universal healthcare. The new category is sponsored by the national government and one of its major aims is to create awareness on how to prepare students for the future job market and how they can participate in national development. The Big Four agenda has been paraded as President Kenyatta’s vehicle to leave a lasting legacy and the national government is using the music festival as a forum to spread the message. COUNTY COMPETITIONS Thousands of students are participating in the 2018 music festival which is currently at the county level. In Nakuru County, students presented cultural dances, set pieces, gospel music, solo and choral verses and music and dance categories from Africa and other parts of the world. The new categories thrilled the audience, The festival held at Utumushi Academy saw a fierce competition among secondary schools in Nakuru County. St Phillip’s High School emerged top with a brilliant choral verse, 'Pambazuko', which garnered 82 marks out of 100. The verse was about the need to cultivate all talents among students so as to lead them to innovation in different fields. “The verse encourages teachers, parents and the general public to promote students to excel in the fields they are good at. This is in line with the new educational curriculum and the Big Four agenda,” said the school’s Principal Bernice Mwambi. NATIONAL RESOURCES “Essentially, the Big Four approach is about proper application of national resources for purposes of employment and wealth creation’’ she said. “It feels good to win at the county level. Hopefully, we shall win at the regional level and even at the nationals,” said Hillary Akinyi a student from St Phillip’s High School. Other participants from the school were Mecry Mwongeri and Mary WaIthira. Coming a close second in the category was Karima Mixed Secondary School, followed by Michinda Boys, Moi High School Kabarak and Nyondia Secondary School, in that order. FIERCE COMPETITION The category promises a more fierce competition in when the festival reaches regional and national levels. With the Big Four approach, it is expected Kenyans will adopt a complete departure from the “business as usual” approach in the management of public affairs to a more focused and engaged approach in the implementation of government projects. Ultimately, the Big Four agenda is expected to help create jobs which will enable Kenyans to meet their basic needs. Winners in the Nakuru competitions will represent the county during the Rift Valley Region Music Festival which will be held from June 30 to July 7 in Kitale town. Another new category has been introduced in the festival, which is sponsored by the National Social Security Fund (NSSF). The category, with the theme “Growing you for good”, focuses on the role of NSSF in inculcating the need among young people to save for the future. SAVE FOR RETIREMENT It also aims to encourage teachers and the general public to save for retirement. In this category, St Philip’s Girls were the winners, followed by St Clare High School while Elburgon High School followed closely. “We aim to create awareness among the students on the importance of starting to save at an early age,” says Ms Mwambi, The Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD) is also sponsoring a category aimed at promoting the need to develop not only academically but also all other talents among students. It is aimed at promoting the need of developing competency learning so that students can get opportunities to be better in what they are gifted in. According to the Kenya National Music Festival Executive Secretary Ruth Agesa, the Group 1 regional festivals for Western, Central, Coast and Rift Valley will be held from August 8 to 12 this year. GROUP TWO Ms Agesa, who is also the head of Performing Arts in the Ministry of Education, said the Group 2 regions, namely Nairobi, Nyanza, Eastern and North Eastern will hold their festivals from July 15 to 21. The Nairobi Sub-Regional Secondary Schools music festival is being held at Highridge Girls High School. The festival has attracted multiple entries and competition is high in a bid to determine who will represent the county in the Nairobi Regional Music Festival which will be held from July 12 to 14 at Jamhuri High School. Regional executive committee members Patrick Maritim and Rhodah Ogaro said more schools are participating compared to last year’s event. Among the schools that were well received by the audience includes Kenya High, Parklands Arya Girls, State House Girls, The Aga Khan School, Nairobi School, Strathmore, Kianda School, Huruma Girls, Burubu Girls, Our Lady of Fatima and Kahawa Garrison among others. They presented verses and cultural dances on various themes including the need for pupils to enjoy their leisure time, terrorism and national cohesion.  