With the increasing focus on dealing with corruption firmly takes shape and becomes a national agenda item, led by none other than the President, the question is how Kenyans will be interested and mobilised to give it support. The effort needs the support of each one of us, more importantly members of the public, to not only publicly ridicule those proved guilty but demand a return of the looted resources. The media has been at hand helping to expose scandals and, more importantly, in piling immense pressure on looters to come out through court interventions, denials or related responses by suspects. When covering corruption, however, journalists have become targets of attacks and harassment — especially by the suspects and corporate associations, through holding back advertisements, and members of the public who enjoy close ties with the looters. VICTIMISEDA number of advertisers, directly or through agents, and/or media owners will want to frustrate this but, as already seen, the media managers and editorial leadership should stand firm, for the sake of the country, to continue the current focus, and support the journalists in the effort. Many of the suspects will want to compromise the media and individual journalists; so, watch out and stick to the rules of the profession. The witness protection mechanisms, both in-house and by the Witness Protection Agency, must be reactivated and journalists must ensure to employ safety protocols so as to remain safe as they cover these stories. The media, as always, is an important player in the anti-graft effort and, through consistent, factual and professional covering of corruption-related matters, will help to create the needed public resentment of those in public positions looting public resources. The public anger will see the looters ejected from and jeered in public gatherings. EXPOSÉMedia will help in making their families, professional bodies, colleagues and business associates know that these people are thieves. The media, as it is doing by covering corruption, might assist in the anti-corruption war by writing boldly and frequently on the issue, including giving the finer details of the corruption chains. The time to hide in soft spots is over and journalists must make a decision. The public is watching. The media has ever been a very important whistle-blower, assisting investigators with salient information and identities of looters that helped to expose corruption scandals all over. It should dig up the suspect companies — including information on their registration, directorships and beneficiaries of proceeds from underhand dealings by the entities, which is a major source of corruption. CULPRITSWhile generally it has been held that public servants remain the biggest suspects in corruption, it is increasingly becoming clear that the private sector, too, is a major player in the vice. Shell companies, secretive offshore firms, shadowy trusts, companies owned through proxies and an opaque company register have made it difficult for the government to firmly deal with issues such as tax evasion and avoidance, conflict of interest and money laundering. The media can use the access to information law and independent news sourcing skills to get factual and verifiable information and report it. While the current effort on corruption is the best in a long time, the figures involved keep changing, raising a legitimate concern over due diligence done by journalists. They must seek and report the truth. The media is critical in promoting good governance, including by exposing corrupt practices in both the public and private sector without bias. It plays a big role in raising public awareness regarding corruption, exposing the human rights violations associated with the vice and pushing for action. Mr Bwire works at the Media Council of Kenya. vicbwire@gmail.com  