Captain Mercy Moim leads a strong 28-player Malkia Strikers squad to camp on Monday to prepare for the 2018 FIVB Volleyball Women's World Championship. The three-week long tournament doesn't serve off until between September 29, but Kenya Volleyball Federation secretary general Ben Juma says the early preparations are geared towards having the side perform well in Japan. "We want these players to have full training routine and the federation is also organising some high profile friendly matches in Nairobi and probably in Europe," said Juma. Moim has arguably been the team's best player for the past two years, especially after she burst onto the scene with match winning performances during the during the Group 3 FIVB Grand Prix triumph in Australia in 2015. The Kenya Prisons left attacker will be assisted by Kenya Pipeline captain Trizah Atuka, who has been in impressive form off late too. Atuka has led her team to four consecutive league titles and was voted the best blocker at the International AMACO Cup volleyball tournament in Eldoret last weekend. Atuka's teammates Janet Wanja, Noel Murambi, Agrippina Kundu and Violet Makuto have also made the cut, as well as Prisons duo, Edith Wisa and Everlyne Makuto. Elizabeth Wanyama has also been recalled following a maternity sabbatical whilst the technical team led by David Lung'aho has also offered chances to KCB's Milgrene Lituvula, Lincy Jeruto and DCI's Josephine Nafula, Jane Mumba and Nancy Mulonza, in the wake of their impressive form in the Kenya Volleyball Federation women's league this season. Kenya is seeking to better her inconsistent international record at this 24-team tournament, which will be staged in the cities of Hamamatsu, Kobe, Nagoya, Osaka, Sapporo and Yokohama. Malkia Strikers are pooled in Group D alongside Brazil, Dominican Republic, Kazakhstan, Puerto Rico and Serbia and will have to finish in the top three positions to progress to the knockout phase of the competition. Provisional list: Noel Murambi, Leonida Kasaya, Violet Makuto, Triza Atuka, Agripina Kundu, Celestine Nafula, Christine Siwa, Janet Wanja, Jemima Siangu (Kenya Pipeline), Mercy Moim, Everlyne Makuto, Edith Wisa, Emmaculate Chemtai, Jane Wacu, Lorine Chebet, Sharon Chepchumba, Yvonne Wavinya, Joy Luseneka, Elizabeth Wanyama, Pamela Masaisai (Kenya Prisons), Milgrene Lituvula, Lincy Jeruto, Eglay Kulova, Nancy Malonza (KCB), Josephine Nafula, Jane Mumbua, Carline Sirengo (DCI) Caren Cheruto (Bungoma County)  