Crackdown on suspected dirty sugar continued on Wednesday, with police impounding nine trucks ferrying the sweetener in Rongo, Migori County. Police told the Nation that the trailers were from Mombasa and were taking the imported sugar to a miller in Homa Bay County. LOCKED UP They were impounded at a roadblock near Rongo town by the county government askaris. The trucks were moved to Rongo Police Station and their drivers locked up. Migori county police boss Joseph Nthenge said they were investigating the documentation of the consignments and if they were cleared by the relevant agencies. "We will move to the next step after tying all loose ends in our probe," Mr Nthenge told the Nation. Residents of Rongo said the trailers were being driven fast in a convoy. "One of the drivers attempted to negotiate their freedom from the council askaris but they stood firm and called the police," said Mr Kevin Owino, a roadside vendor. In Tharaka-Nithi, security officers on Tuesday seized 800 bags of suspected contraband sugar in Chuka town. FLOUR Led by Chuka Deputy County Commissioner Omar Beja, the officers raided Option One Distributors where they seized 600 bags, proceeded to Vision Star Enterprises, Joint and later Jumbo stores where they seized 11 bags, 74 bags and 60 bags, respectively. Option One Distributors is linked to a family of a popular politician in the county. At Option One Distributors stores, the officers also found 84 kilogrammes of expired maize flour and arrested the manager. Addressing journalists after the raid, Mr Beja said they learnt of the suspect commodities after the public raised the alarm. He said samples of the sugar would be taken to government chemist for tests. Mr Beja added that government will do everything to ensure that Kenyans  do not consume harmful goods. The team is set to hold a meeting with officers from the Kenya Bureau of Standards, Kenya Revenue Authority and public health officers as they  investigate the matter.   Sweetener seized in Eastleigh and other warehouses in Nairobi also has copper.