The National Police Service Commission has embarked on  verifying the authenticity of over 3,700 degree certificates submitted by its junior officers last month. Police officers in the rank of constable, corporal, sergeant and senior sergeant from Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI), Kenya Police and Administration Police (AP) submitted their certificates in 11 centres spread across the country between May 2 and May 5. The preliminary statistics indicate that 3,739 police officers are degree holders. “In phase 1, graduate police constables were required to complete a questionnaire  and present themselves at various centres with original and certified copies of academic certificates,” according to an NPSC bulletin published every two months. AUTHENTICITY In Phase 2, the commission is set to verify the authenticity of the said certificates. The Johnstone Kavuludi-led team is involving Commission on University Education, the State Department of University Education, National Police Service (NPS) and the Kenya National Qualifications Authority in the exercise. In April NPSC, through a circular, informed all regional commanders about its intention to visit the counties from May 2 with the aim of auditing all degrees held by police officers in a bid to clean up the payroll. The NPSC took the step after a pay dispute erupted over the reduction of salaries for graduate and disabled officers. PAY CUTS The pay cuts were effected on their March pay-slips after it emerged that thousands of officers were presenting fake degree certificates in order to qualify for higher pay. A Form Four leaver recruited to the service earns a basic pay of Sh25,000 as a constable. This is increased to Sh36,000 if the officer acquires a degree. This amount is similar to what an inspector earns as basic pay or what those who join the force after clearing university are paid every month. “Several police officers have acquired degrees in specialised fields but are currently in general duty areas,” NPSC said. POOL OF GRADUATES The commission has a pool of graduates from which we can easily pick officers to be re-designated as cadets,” said NPSC. The audit conducted by NPSC in conjunction with the National Council for Persons Living with Disability (NCPWD)  between April 3 and April 4, also indicates that 408 police officers are disabled. “Out of 514 police officers who turned for vetting at eight regional headquarters, 408 cases as being authentic while another 40 cases are being further scrutinised. The other 105 officers are not yet registered with the NCPWD and thus are not recognised as and hence cannot access these benefits,” says the report. GUNSHOT WOUNDS The cause of injury for majority of officers is gunshot wounds by bandits, terrorist attacks. Other injuries are caused by road accidents, rioting members of the public and even sickness through stroke and diabetes.   Police department still remains on the spot despite the NPSC's assertion that vetting has been a success.