Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka’s presence at the National Prayer Breakfast ceremony on Thursday has excited Ukambani, with scores saying the move will rejuvenate his political career after Nasa’s disintegration. Mr Musyoka, who was ODM leader Raila Odinga’s running mate during last year’s general election, had raised concern among his supporters for missing key events, key among them the March 9th reconciliation between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Mr Odinga. Wiper chairman Kivutha Kibwana had called on Mr Musyoka to personally reconcile with President Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto and forge a working relationship with the duo. “We wish to ask Kalonzo that from now on, he should not have anybody negotiate for him. A handshake can only be between two people. Raila’s handshake is his. This is said as I express my deepest respect for Raila. But now Kalonzo must define his own political trajectory post-2017,” said Prof Kibwana, who is also Makueni governor. The region is expected to rally behind Mr Musyoka should he contest for the country’s top job in 2022. STRIKE DEALS Senators Mutula Kilonzo Jnr (Makueni) and Enock Wambua (Kitui) had challenged Mr Musyoka to strike deals with President Kenyatta, Ruto and leaders from other regions to buttress his chances of clinching the presidency.  Telling from his speech at the prayer breakfast, Mr Musyoka had been healing from the loss at last year’s general election. “When it comes to being angry because of political outcomes, I think I was the number one culprit. One of the lessons I have learned is to never be angry at your political competitor – it does not help,” he said amid cheers at the event that was beamed live on television. He went on: “Uhuru, you have demonstrated leadership and we stand with you in fighting corruption. There should be no sacred cows. To Ruto, I forgive you and may God bless you,” he added. Political pundits noted that Mr Musyoka’s presence at the event confirmed that the former vice president is still one of the country’s top leaders. HANDSHAKE “We were excited in Makueni and Ukambani at large to see that the handshake has been expanded to include Mr Musyoka because that shows that he is being accepted as one of the key leaders in Kenya,” Prof Kibwana said during the Madaraka Day celebrations. Makueni Woman Rep Rose Museo termed Mr Musyoka’s presence a “very good move”. “By joining of hands with the President, it shows there is no point of fighting every day,” Ms Museo, who is a member of the 14-member Building Bridges Advisory Taskforce appointed by President Kenyatta and Mr Odinga to help heal the country, told the Nation. There was general consensus that Mr Musyoka’s presence at the event showed that he had no grudge with anyone. Supporters hope that Mr Musyoka will work more closely with President Kenyatta, his deputy William Ruto, and Mr Odinga.   President, his Deputy, Raila and Kalonzo lead the way in apologising to each other over abuses they made during last year’s divisive polls.