Violence against women can manifest itself in many ways in situations of conflict. When a toddler in her mother's arms is clobbered to death by police officers quelling election-related violence, not only do they harm the child but the mother too, as she has to live with the memories of her child's violent and untimely demise. This is what happened in Kisumu last August when Ms Lencer Achieng's child, Baby Samantha Pendo, died after being assaulted by a police officer. In February, Kisumu Resident Magistrate Beryl Omollo had to adjourn an inquest into Baby Pendo's death to allow Ms Achieng to calm down. BROKE DOWN Mrs Achieng had broken down in tears as she testified during an in-quest into her daughter’s death. She was narrating how heavily-armed officers lobbed teargas into her bed-sitter in Nyalenda Estate before entering and descending on her and her husband with blows. Mrs Achieng was holding her baby at the time. In the process, the baby was hit on the head with a club, sending her screaming and foaming on the mouth as the head started swelling. CRACKED SKULL The infant sustained a crack in the skull from the blow and remained in a comma for three days as doctors raced to save her life. Pendo eventually succumbed to the injury. Baby Pendo's mother is just one of many women who suffered in the hands of officers during an electioneering period, which in Kenya, has become associated with violence and conflict. It is for women like that that this week, the UN led the world in marking the International Day for the Elimination of Sexual Violence in Conflict. This is a poignant point for Kenya, which has prolonged electioneering cycles that are also marked by violence between protesters and police or conflict between supporters of various political parties, leaders and formations. AWAITING JUSTICE Ms Achieng's pain mirrors that of Mrs Caroline Okello, who is still waiting for justice for her 18-year-old son, Michael Okoth, who was also killed during the electioneering period. Mrs Okello, who lives in Makogilo in the informal settlements of Manyatta, is still waiting for answers as to why her son, a Vihiga Boys High School student, was shot dead during an election protest. Michael was found lying dead in a pool of blood with visible injuries on the throat and legs. "I am still pained with the death of my son and yet nothing has been done to get the killers," says Mrs Okello. Autopsy showed he succumbed to multiple gunshot wounds. Mr Francis Auma, who is in charge of swift action at Haki Africa, a human rights lobby group, has called on the relevant authorities to act with speed and address such cases.   Court told it was wrong for Mr Thiringi to keep quiet after he confirmed the child was admitted to hospital.