By granting the Safari Rally a World Rally Championship (WRC) Candidate Event status on Thursday, the International Automobile Federation (FIA) virtually gave a seal of approval for the Safari Rally’s re-admission into the global circuit. The candidate event status was granted at the exclusive France Automobile Club, the perfect hallmark of French bourgeoisie, neighbouring the FIA headquarters at the Place la Concorde, the main city centre overlooking the iconic Eiffel Tower. Thursday’s promotional agreement was presided over by the WRC Promoter, the commercial rights holder of the WRC, in the presence of FIA President Jean Todt, Sports and Heritage Principal Secretary, Kirimi Kaberia, Kenya’s Ambassador to France Nyambura Kamau and the chief executive of the WRC Safari Rally Project, Phineas Kimathi. Kaberia signed the agreement with WRC Promoter managing Director Oliver Ciesla with view to the classic African fixture returning to the WRC calendar in 2020. Kaberia said this is “the beginning of a meaningful and very tasking commitment” to see the heritage of the Safari Rally as a premier sporting event in the world rekindled. “Our Government is very committed to the Safari Rally and we will do everything in our power to make sure this great event is brought back to the WRC,” said Kaberia. “This signing is a major milestone and a day we have looked forward to for a very long time. Arriving at this point is a great pleasure. “There is still a lot of work to be done and we will collaborate closely with all parties ahead of next year’s candidate rally to show that Kenya is ready and capable to deliver what is expected.” “This agreement reflects our determination to restore a legendary rally to the championship and reinstate Africa to the top table of world rallying after an absence of more than a decade,” said Ciesla. The Safari, which last featured in the WRC in 2002, is due to take place as a candidate event next year with the FIA and WRC Promoter in attendance. “It must be run by world standards and we will stand by Kenya to ensure security and safety is addressed,” Ciesla added. Subject to it achieving high-level standards in key areas such as safety and organisation, WRC Promoter intends to propose the Safari’s inclusion in the WRC for an initial three-year period from 2020 to 2022. The Promoter proposes venues of WRC which are presented to the FIA Motorsport Council every October. This means that Kenya’s fate will be decided in 18 months’ time and could actualize President Uhuru Kenyatta’s pledge to Kenyans to have the rally back on the WRC calendar. The candidate event is expected to be held in March or April, but the date will be finalised once the dates for the 2019 calendar have been confirmed, allowing the WRC team representatives to attend. Ciesla was a guest at the 2018 edition of the Safari Rally which was based in Nairobi and formed a round of the African and Kenyan championships. “It has long been a key part of the calendar development strategy to take the WRC back to Africa and fulfil the dreams of our fans to restore this mythical event,” he said. “A truly global championship requires a presence in the world’s second largest continent and the Kenyan government has made a huge commitment to re-stablish the Safari to its former glory. “This is a modern-era Safari. Traditional open-road competitive sections have been replaced by smoother special stages in private estates and conservancies and a comprehensive safety plan is in place to support a rally organised to the current WRC format. “That doesn’t mean the challenge is diminished. The gravel roads are demanding and we can also look forward to striking images of African wildlife and stunning landscapes.” The theme in Paris on Thursday was Kenyan at the official hall which was decorated with Kenyan colours. The Kenyan delegation also visited the posh FIA offices.   Kenya will host the Safari Rally in 2019.