Former US President Barrack Obama will on July 16 preside over the official opening of global standard sport facilities in K’Ogelo, Siaya County when he makes his first visit to the country since he left office in 2016. The facilities – Sauti Kuu Sports, a resource and vocational training centre – will be the first in the region and will host world class athletes. Sauti Kuu founder, Dr Auma Obama, says the centre comprises an international standard-size football pitch sponsored by the German Ministry for Development Cooperation, a basketball court sponsored by the Giants of Africa Foundation and a volleyball and netball court. Other facilities include a library, an information technology laboratory and a vocational centre “sponsored by multiple Sauti Kuu supporters, who will be in attendance”. SAFE FOR CHILDREN "I am so happy to finally inaugurate this centre after three years of hard work. The space will serve as a safe physical space for children, youth and their families to meet and interact regularly while participating in different sports and learning activities," Dr Obama said on Saturday, in a statement by Gina Din Group that is handling the event. She went on, "Through educational, sports and learning activities, the centre will pave the way for a better future for Sauti Kuu children, youth and their families.” She said Mr Obama’s attendance is significant and promotes his mission under the Obama Foundation. EMPOWER PEOPLE "Given that his own mission under the Obama Foundation is to inspire and empower people to change the world, his attendance at this event at our ancestral home, where our father was laid to rest, is of great significance to me," she said. "I am forever grateful for his support to help me realise my vision. This is just the start, we hope to be able to replicate our work in other parts of Kenya and Africa," she added. Ms Gina-Din Kariuki, the executive chairperson of the Gina Din Group, who are handling the event said, “It is a great privilege to be handling this event. I have seen the incredible commitment Dr Auma (Obama) has put into realising her vision for the Sauti Kuu Foundation.” “This is the beginning of a truly transformative space for this community, for Kenya, and for Africa as a whole.”  