There’s a quote by Ted Trueblood, the renowned writer and conservationist, which goes: “The silence of nature is very real. It surrounds you…you can feel it.” But things are changing, and nature seems to be getting weary of this silence. For thousands of years, man has lorded his power over the planet. We have plundered nature, clearing forests to put up homes and factories and construct roads. We have poured toxic waste into our rivers, lakes and seas, destroying entire ecosystems, while barely stopping to think about the consequences of our actions. And nature is fighting back. Global warming, cyclical droughts, famine and flooding are evidence of this. Every year, we set aside days revolving around the conservation of nature — from the International Day of Trees and Forests to World Water Day and now World Environment Day. GLOBAL CELEBRATIONS These global celebrations are designed to ensure that we keep conversations about conservation on the table and to remind us that the collective responsibility of righting our wrongs lies with all of us — individuals and organisations alike. Whether we are planting trees or beating back the plastic waste menace that experts say is threatening marine life, we must all begin to do something about the stark and unpleasant reality our planet faces. Nobel laureate Prof Wangari Maathai, one of Kenya’s most widely celebrated environmental conservation champions, used to say that it’s the little things citizens do that make a difference. Her ‘little thing’ was planting trees: We can carry on that legacy and do more. At the foot of Mt Kenya is Ngare Ndare Forest, a 5,300-hectare indigenous forest reserve that boasts a variety of bird and animal species — including the ‘Big Five’ and two-century-old trees that form the only expanding canopy in Kenya. PROTECTING ECOSYSTEM As part of our commitment to protecting that ecosystem, the Safaricom Foundation has over the past decade worked closely with the community bordering the forest to reduce human encroachment, carry out reforestation and create alternative sources of income for local youth. The impact of this has been significant with the community running more than a dozen large tree nurseries and planting over a million seedlings in nearby farmlands with a survival rate of 85-90 per cent. Tree growing is in line with our target of Net Zero carbon emissions by 2050. We aim to achieve this through our commitment to Sustainable Development Goal 12 on responsible production and consumption. We continue to reduce the amount of energy consumed by our facilities and are investing in solar-powered base transmission stations in recognition of the environmental damage caused by over-reliance on fossil fuels. We have also developed a robust e-waste collection system through which we have properly disposed of close to 1,000 tonnes of e-waste since 2012. The company has also launched and implemented an Integrated Waste Management Programme that has enabled us to recycle 97 per cent of the waste we generate. SINGLE-USE PLASTICS We are also working with partners to reach our goals by incorporating little changes that make a big difference. For example, we aim to phase out the use of single-use plastics within our offices, starting with getting rid of plastic plates and cutlery at our cafeterias and replacing plastic trash bins with eco-friendly separation bins that require members of staff to separate food, plastic and paper waste. A year ago, we became the first local company to proactively phase out the use of plastic bags at our shops and replace them with reusable, environmentally friendly ones. At the launch, we projected that the initiative would save our company about Sh10 million annually but the benefits are far greater than our bottom line. One less plastic bag discarded carelessly could mean one less loss for a pastoralist grazing his cattle and, therefore, protection of the livelihoods of those who are more often than not the least responsible for the destruction of the environment. INJUSTICES Admittedly, we have a very long way to go before we can correct the injustices perpetrated against the environment by mankind. But we must begin somewhere. Individually, and as organisations, we all need to play our part so that nature will be kinder to future generations than it is to us today. The business of business is not just business anymore. Companies can, and should, play a more active role in preserving the environment. We can no longer be passive; we need to actively get involved. It starts with the smallest of actions. Inspired by Prof Maathai, I challenge you: What’s your little thing? Mr Chege is the director of corporate affairs, Safaricom. dca@safaricom.co.ke  