Every week we think we have hit the lowest point as a country, and every subsequent week we prove ourselves wrong. We have lately been speaking about corruption and all manner of scandals in all government departments that result in the theft of hundreds of billions of shillings. This past week has been dominated by allegations that some individuals corruptly imported sugar into the country, and not only failed to pay the required taxes, but also released into the market sugar tainted with heavy metals. The allegations were first made by the Cabinet Secretary in charge of internal security, and later vigorously supported by the head of the police investigative arm. However, soon after that the race to the bottom began. Another Cabinet Secretary denied the allegations that the sugar was tainted with the poisonous substances, and at some point the head of the country’s standards bureau seemed to agree. ASTOUNDED What followed were accusations and counter-accusations between government officials, even roping in legislators in the ruling coalition who could be found on both sides of the argument. As is the Kenyan tradition, speculation soon shifted to the political foundations of the arguments, including the possibility that the furore was meant to turn our attention away from ‘bigger’ scandals like the theft of billions of shillings at the National Youth Service, the Kenya Pipeline Company, the National Land Commission, the National Hospital Insurance Fund, and several other government agencies and departments. Despite the gravity of the listed ‘bigger’ scandals past and currently underway, I was completely astounded that many commentators soon forgot about the primary problem with the sugar— the fact that a minister of government had alleged that the commodity that is to be found on practically all breakfast tables across the country was tainted with poison. This allegation alone merited serious discussion, and consequences for those involved whether it was true or not. SACKING Immediately the allegation was made, the government should have taken steps to assure the safety of the sugar-consuming public. Nothing else should have been allowed to continue until the sugar was properly tested, and measures taken to remove any tainted consignments from the market. Indeed, the same fellow who made the allegations is legally required by law to do exactly this. The fact that he chose to shout about tainted sugar and do preciously little about it points to one of two things. Firstly, perhaps he knew, as speculated, that the sugar was safe for consumption and was only making the allegations for some other ulterior motive. This cynical action would merit his immediate sacking and prosecution for making statements calculated to cause a despondency and a potential breach of the peace. ILL HEALTH Secondly, perhaps the minister was sincerely convinced that the imported sugar was tainted and harmful to human health if consumed. If this was the case, his subsequent inactivity in mopping up the dangerous stuff from the market and from our homes suggests that he is either incompetent or unwilling to do so for whatever reason. The upshot of this is that the minister, and perhaps the whole government machinery behind him, was comfortable with the idea that some Kenyans would consume the tainted sugar and later suffer debilitating ill health under his watch. Whatever the cause for his inactivity, it is completely baffling that the appointing authority continues to observe matters from a distance while his internal security minister either callously lies to Kenyans or sits idly watching as Kenyan lives are put at risk. The fact that other government officials felt comfortable to contradict the Interior Cabinet secretary without necessarily tendering any evidence to back up their scepticism confirms that the problem is higher up. Lukoye Atwoli is Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Dean Moi University School of Medicine; lukoye@gmail.com  