Companies and institutions seeking to advertise in Nyeri County will be the hardest hit if a proposal to increase charges and introduce new taxes is approved. The county Finance Bill 2018, prepared by County Finance Executive Robert Thuo, seeks to boost revenue collection. Low budgetary allocations by the national government and poor revenue collection might have forced the county to propose the new charges, increase existing ones and digitise its operations. Most of the changes touch on advertising and promotional material, as well as the cost of medical services. DONKEYS For instance, the cost of displaying a commercial flag has been doubled from Sh10,000 to Sh20,000. The county has also introduced towing charges for vehicles clamped for failure to pay parking fees. Saloon cars and pick-ups will pay Sh3,000, while lorries will be charged Sh5,000. Also introduced are charges for hiring county grounds. Public schools will pay Sh1,000 while private institutions will pay Sh5,000. The county has also proposed to increase commercial permits for donkeys from Sh500 to Sh2,000 annually. But this is not a common means of transport in Nyeri town. GRAVE SITE On the bright side, the county has proposed to scrap the annual Sh300 fee for every nursery school child in early child development examination centres. Brand of the county’s stadium will cost Sh20,000 per square metre. Burial fees at the Baden Powell grave site will rise by Sh700. Notably, Treasury CS Henry Rotich proposed last Thursday that governors should consult Parliament before levying new taxes and charges. DIGITISE If the Government Revenue Raising Regulation Process Bill 2018 which proposes this obstacle is approved, Mr Thuo will be stopped from implementing the changes that seek to introduce new taxes, increase while also reduce the existing ones. He will have to seek approval from the MPs in a bid to curb double taxation bringing reprieve to the business community. The county has purchased a software to digitize revenue collection and monitoring. The county set aside Sh17 million for the purchase of the software which had been factored in this year’s budget. DEFAULTERS Land rates defaulters who owe the county millions in outstanding rates have also been put on notice. Governor Mutahi Kahiga has warned landlords that it will start collecting rents from rental houses owned by land rates defaulters to clear arrears. In an advert, the county announced that it had extended the deadline for the 100 per cent waiver on penalties and interest urging land owners to pay CANCELLED “Failure to this the tenants on the land that the rates have not been paid will pay directly to the county government until all the land rates are fully paid,” the advert indicated. In addition, the licenses and permits granted to premises on which rates have not been paid will be cancelled or withdrawn. Further the county will deny the defaulters all other services offered by the county.  