On the job for 17 or so months crowing “America First!” and boasting mastery of “the art the deal,” US President Donald Trump seems to have trouble with the “art of diplomacy.” That’s knowledge and ability to tell adversaries “go to hell!” and make them happy doing so, in other words getting desired results with all involved, including self, so to speak, singing “My lollipop!” For months Trump has been consumed with the possibility of a summit with North Korea’s, to quote Trump, “Little Rocket Man”, to say nothing of other derogatory attributes he has heaped on the leader Kim Jong-un. ALTERNATIVE FACTS In all fairness, Kim, like a kid, considering Trump’s age, with a fleet of Cadillacs for breakfast, has been equally obnoxious. He has gone as far as far as describing Trump as a “dotard.” Factually, and not “alternatively” so, to rephrase a saying— "alternative facts” and “relative” truth goings-on—in Trump’s administration, the US president isn’t, not yet, a dotard. The summit, scheduled for June 12, 2018—next week—in Singapore, if Trump’s fingers don’ get itchy on Twitter—would be historic as a first encounter between sitting US President and North Korean leaders. It would be even more so were it to open a door to an end of hostilities since the end of the 1950-1953 Korean war, in one era of human stupidity. That aside, last week Trump essentially called long-time allies of the United States trade “rapists” without using the word, as he has done with China. LOLLIPOP RHYMES And so, he slammed the EU members states, Mexico, and, of all countries, Canada. The latter has tried very hard to survive, as Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s father, Pierre, then prime minister, once described as “sleeping next to an elephant.” These nations vowed to gang-up. No lollipop rhymes Earlier, Trump had withdrawn the United States from a nuclear deal it had been party to between Iran, Britain, France, Germany—US allies—and China and Russia, Washington’s rivals. The aim was to stymie Iran’s efforts to acquire nuclear weapons. The International Atomic Energy Agency, the sole authority on nuclear matters, has declared Iran compliant with the provisions of the deal. PUNITIVE MEASURES Not surprising, the snubbed nations, including Iran, are busy figuring out ways to save it. And with Trump threatening punitive measures against companies in their countries dealing with Iran, the reply is: we’ll hit back too. Again, no lollipop rhymes. In January, Trump spoke at the World Economic Forum in Davos. He insisted “America first does not mean America alone.” Looking at the above actions, he seems not or pretends to not know what, for a nation globally, being alone means. Reportedly, some Nigerians have a saying: If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far, go together.” Cavemen and cavewomen knew. That’s how come humans exist all over the globe. cmbitiru@hotmail.com  