Chris Chuma, 26, was a member of a Nakuru dance group and he and his six colleagues found it difficult getting unique outfits for events. They wanted to stand out at all events. And though they always found a way around it, they felt they needed a permanent solution. The seven of them founded a Nakuru-based design firm targeting the youth and named it Washumpi House. “This was in the year 2013 when I was still at the Rift Valley Institute of Science and Technology (RVIST), where I was pursuing my Diploma in Business Information Communication and Technology,” Chuma recalls. PASSION In 2014, Chuma dropped out of college to focus on fashion design. He then enrolled for a short course in fashion design that took six months to polish skills he already had. He did not tell his parents, fearing they would discourage him from the venture.    “The cost of fighting for my dream was not easy since I had to use the 2014 first semester and second semester school fees to build up the company; that was Sh32,000 a semester. When I started, my focus was mostly on ladies’ attire and shoes for both male (flat loafers) and female (doll-shoes), sandals, high-heels and wedges.” “The first few items were a few print materials, mainly second-hand clothes, rubber soles for making shoes and suede for the shoes. I had acquired a few tools but I would borrow wooden shoe shapers before I acquired mine,” says Chuma. Although some of his colleagues quit the fashion design firm to join other ventures, Chuma says he remained focused to accomplish his dream. He brought on board three young people who he works with to date. “We specialised in unique trends and my clients are mostly on online platforms, making us more of an online shop. I have sold my products to people as far as South Africa, Melbourne, Chicago, Malaysia, just to name a few,” he says. RECOGNITION Although most of their marketing is online-based, Chuma pays a small fee to get help in marketing. “I use social media platforms and also pay for marketing with Hi-lo Planet, a marketing company in Nakuru,” he says. The venture has seen him make a profit of between Sh25,000 and Sh50,000 a month. “With the invention of the internet, hashtags and multiple platforms that share information, it is easier for me to access latest trends. To be specific, I normally use Pinterest because it offers a wide range of valuable information for fashion designers as well as graphic designers.” His work is not limited to some materials. “I love playing around with materials, thus prefer my freedom when it comes to material choice.”    “In the fashion and design sector, we lack support from both County and National Governments. They could help by expanding and creating fashion market avenues not only in Kenya but also abroad, as well as creating funds to help fashion SMEs.” His designs have been recognised in the county, and he won the ‘Best designer street fest Nakuru’ award. They have also dressed participants in events in the county among them Mr and Miss Mount Kenya University Nakuru and 2015 and 2016 and Mr and Miss Red cross 2015. The future looks bright with the dream of setting up Washumpi branches in major cities, as well as making pact with international brands to make it easy for clients get my products at ease and a dream to showcase at the major international fashion platforms.  