Jockins Atudo put up a man-of-the-match performance as Harambee Stars trounced Chinese Taipei 4-0 in the last group game of the Hero Intercontinental Cup at Mumbai Football Arena on Friday. Harambee Stars will face India in the inaugural Hero Intercontinental Cup final on Sunday thanks to Atudo's brace plus strikes from Dennis Odhiambo and Timothy Otieno. Second half strikes from Dennis Odhiambo, Jockins Atudo and Timothy Otieno is all Sebastien Migne’s charges needed to finish second in the group with six points similar to leaders India and qualify for the final. Odhiambo tapped in the opener from an Ovella Ochieng’ corner kick in the 52nd minute after Erick “Marcelo” Ouma’s curling shot from the edge of the box was tipped out by Taipei custodian Hung Chieu resulting to the corner. Hung fouled Pistone Mutamba two minutes later to earn a penalty that Atudo converted. Timothy Otieno, who replaced Cliffton Miheso at the start of the second half, scored the third in the 69th minute before Atudo completed his brace in the dying moments. Migne’s double substitution after restart, pulling out Miheso for Otieno and Patillah Omoto for Bolton Omwenga, added punch to his forward line. He later handed a senior team debut to Kariobangi Sharks’ promising midfielder Vincent Wasambo 15 minutes to time after resting Ovella. Kenya went offensive from the onset but failed to get an early goal with the Chinese settling into the match slowly. Pistone Mutamba headed wide from a corner kick after 11 minutes. Chinese Taipei were forced to make an early change following goalkeeper Chieh-Pan’s injury with second choice Hung Chu replacing him on 22 minutes. Migne made one change in the team that lost 3-0 to India on Monday, replacing Bolton Omwenga with Erick Ouma while Dennis Odhiambo and Duncan Otieno played defensive roles in the midfield. Patrick Matasi retained his place in between the sticks with Miheso, Mutamba and Ovella Ochieng’ starting upfront. The match was Migne’s fifth as Stars coach. Kenya results in India June 2: Kenya 2-1 New Zealand June 4: India 3-0 Kenya June 8: Kenya 4-0 Chinese Taipei  