Esse Akida came off the bench to snatch a crucial win for Harambee Starlets as they beat two-time African champions Equatorial Guinea 2-1 in a 2018 Africa Women's Cup of Nations second round first leg qualifier at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos on Wednesday. The visitors took the lead through Boho Sayo's clinical header from a Genoveva Nze corner kick, but a 35-yard thunderbolt from Tereza Engesha levelled matters three minutes to the break.   Akida, who replaced Sheryl Angachi on 54 minutes, tapped home fellow substitute Cynthia Musungu’s well-calculated cross to send a sizeable crowd that turned up into a frenzy. Starlets will need to avoid defeat in the Saturday's return leg tie to book a ticket to the finals set to be held in Ghana later this year, which will be their second ever appearance after debuting in 2016 in Cameroon. “I must congratulate my girls for fighting from a goal down to win against such a strong team,” said Starlets coach David Ouma. “The substitutes did well because Esse and Cynthia are offensive-minded players and that’s what we needed in the second half,” he added assuring Kenyans that they will qualify for the final competition come Saturday. His opposite number Severino Besekurondo predicted a tough return leg. “We shall be the hosts in Malabo and having scored the opener here, I think we’ve the advantage to go all out and win the match to qualify,” said Severino, whose team is serving a Fifa ban from the women’s world cup. Equatorial Guinea, 2008 and 2012 African champions, are however between unsure of their fate following the ban that automatically rules them out from the 2019 World Cup should they finish among the top three teams in Ghana which will sail through to the global tourney in France. Neddy Atieno almost broke the deadlock a minute into the match but was denied by Equatorial Guinea custodian Lucrecia Bobuche after being fed by Mwanahalima Adam. Equatorial Guinea’s had their first attempt after 21 minutes through Boho, but her shot from the edge of the box was picked by Paul Atieno in Kenya's goal. Neddy had her attempt go wide at the half hour mark while trying to finish off Engesha’s free-kick that had been deflected by the Equatoguineans’ wall. Mwanahalima’s clever chip from 30 yards out on 73 minutes was parried out by goalkeeper Bobuche for a fruitless corner kick. Musungu, who came on for Engesha on 71 minutes, would turn provider for the winner with six minutes to go. The visitors are ranked 10th on the continent and 55th in the world while Kenya are 15th in Africa and 108th worldwide.  