State Department of Sports Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia on Wednesday said fallen hurdles champion Nicholas Bett was at the prime of his career and his death “a huge blow to Kenya.” “The late was amongst the Kenyan team whom we welcomed from the 21st African Athletics Championships in Asaba two days ago. The late, who was at the prime of his career in athletics at the age of 28, will be missed by the State Department of Sports and our country,” Kaberia said. “This is shocking and unbelievable. Death has robbed us,” said Peter Angwenyi, Kenya’s assistant team manager in Asaba. “Very sad indeed. Just kilometres from home. A sad day for Kenyan athletics,” BBC sports reporter Celestine Karoney, who covered the Asaba championships added. Veteran former national hurdles champion, Rose Tata Muya, was equally devastated: “I was with you the other day at the airport, my son. You have gone too soon.” Former Athletics Kenya treasurer Joseph Kinyua recognised Bett’s contribution to the sport: “Poleni sana the entire Bett family. It was Nicholas and Julius (Yego) that helped change the world athletics equation in Beijing 2015.” “This is unbelievable. Nicholas was a fine and well-behaved athlete. What a loss!,” added former AK secretary and vice president David Okeyo. Milcah Chemos, a former steeplechase world champion, was lost for words. “I’m in tears. Rest in peace brother,” said Chemos who was among the first to arrive at the accident scene. Former Olympic steeplechase silver medallist Patrick Sang, who also served as Nandi County’s first sports executive, described Bett as a “game changer” in athletics. “He was a game changer in diversifying track and field together with Yego and now (high jumper Mathew) Sawe,” Sang, who coaches marathon great Eliud Kipchoge at the Global Sports Communications camp in Kaptagat, said. “My heartfelt condolences to the family of the late champion and the athletics fraternity in general,” AK public relations officer Evans Bosire said, while AK’s chief executive officer, Susan Kamau, who travelled with the team to Asaba was equally devastated. “I hadn’t interacted much with Bett until the championships in Asaba when I got to know him better. God planned that I travel to Asaba to share with this great athlete. My condolences to the family,” Kamau said   Police say he hit a bump and lost control in Lessos.