A world campaign to free Ugandan MP Robert Kyagulanyi, popularly known as Bobi Wine is shaping up. Nobel Laureate Wole Soyinka, regional and global politicians, artists, activists and lawyers on Wednesday joined the #FreeBobiWine campaign calling for the release of the Kyadondo East MP. Benin's Angelique Kidjo and Coldplay's Chris Martin are among the dozens of musicians who have signed a petition calling for the release of Ugandan musician-turned-MP. Mr Kyagulanyi and other opposition-leaning MPs were arrested in the northwestern town of Arua last Monday ahead of Arua Municipality by-election. FRACAS Their detention follows a fracas between MP-elect Kassiano Wadri’s supporters and those of ruling NRM party candidate Nusura Tiperu. In the chaos, Mr Kyagulanyi's driver, Yasin Kawuma, was shot dead and the rear window of a vehicle in President Yoweri Museveni's motorcade smashed. Mr Kyagulanyi is due to appear before a military court on Thursday on charges of possession of illegal firearm. Kenyan lawyers called for the release of the MP and urged the Ugandan government to ensure a fair legal process is granted to all suspects in custody. A lobby in Mombasa also called for the release of the Ugandan MP. In a press statement, Haki Africa executive officer Hussein Khalid urged the rule of law be respected. “As a Kenyan organisation with Africa networks and partners including in Uganda, Haki Africa stands firmly behind comrade Bobi Wine and call on the authorities to release and accord him his rights forthwith. “We reiterate that a violation of human rights anywhere in the world is a threat of violation of human rights everywhere in the world.” “We stand firm to state that the Constitution of Uganda is sacred and all persons and institutions including the police must respect and adhere to it at all times. We therefore call on all to stand firmly behind the rights of all in Uganda. Release Bobi Wine; Free Uganda; Viva Africa!” he said.  Reporting by Agewa Magut, Eunice Murathe   US expresses alarm over Ugandan security forces’ response to protests against Museveni.