The national cricket team has gone on strike. The team, which has been in training for the last four months, downed their bats Wednesday citing several grievances including unpaid salaries and bonuses, poor facilities, and training grounds. Head coach Maurice Odumbe has now called on Cricket Kenya Acting chairman Pali Sehmi to intervene and solve the impasse. Odumbe explained that if the current situation persists, then it might dent Kenya’s preparations for the forthcoming 2018 Africa Twenty20 Cup due September 14 to 24 in South Africa and 2018 World Cricket League Division Three planned for November 7-21 in Oman. Odumbe said his players, who have been training at Ruaraka Sports Club, have been on a go-slow before they decided to boycott training on Wednesday, making things tough for him. “These issues need to be sorted out fast and urgently,” Odumbe said. “At times, I can’t blame the players because they can’t move around or take good care of themselves without any motivation.” Odumbe said the 20 players, who 18 are contracted, are owed two months salary and bonus arrears. “I have also advised the players to be considerate and not compromise on their form since they will still be paid to matter the delay,” said Odumbe. Odumbe advised Cricket Kenya and the game’s stakeholders to hold national elections as soon as possible, saying politics is also contributing to the sorry stake of the national team. “Politics is slowly creeping into the team and this isn’t good. A new office in place will help stabilise situation,” said Odumbe, adding that he has tried to calm the players in vain after Sehmi promised to address the issues within a week. However, when contacted for comments Sehmi said that the players have not been paid after their treasurer Ravi Rikaul resigned early this week. “They have not been paid for one month only and I had assured them that their bonuses will be paid in due course,” said Rikaul. Kenya will face Border, Eastern Province and Mpumalanga from South Africa and Namibia in Pool “C “ of the Africa Twenty20 Championship. In Pool “A, Uganda will be up against South African teams Easterns, KwaZulu-Natal, KwaZulu-Natal Inland and Western Province. Zimbabwe will tackle Gauteng, Free State, Northerns and South Western Districts all from South Africa in Pool ‘B”. Pool “D” has South Africa’s Boland, Limpopo, Northern Cape and North West facing Nigeria. Kenya will face hosts Oman, Singapore, United States, Uganda and Denmark in the World Cricket league Division Three championship, where the top two teams will earn promotion to Division Two next year. Kenya and Oman were relegated from early this year.  