Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed has opened debate about whether or not to convert boarding schools into day institutions in the wake of the wave of student unrest that has hit more than 100 secondary schools in the past two months. Ms Mohamed fell short of openly blaming the turmoil on the mere assertion that the students hate boarding schools and that if they were all enrolled in day institutions, peace would prevail. While the discussion is welcome and opportune, some facts need to be clearly spelt out to put it in a proper historical and social context. The suggestion that the solution to the unrest lies in the scrapping of boarding facilities is not only misplaced, but is also superficial and perfunctory. DIVERSITY Boarding schools are not new in Kenya. Indeed, some of the best and oldest national schools, which have a rich history of producing brilliant leaders, entrepreneurs and even sports legends, are boarding institutions. They are credited with acting as cultural melting pots, where students from diverse backgrounds meet, develop enduring friendships, learn to appreciate various traditions, religions and beliefs and some even learn the basics of another language as a direct result of the amity fostered in such institutions. For their part, day schools tend to be rather provincial, attracting students from the neighbourhood who grow up oblivious of other cultures and languages. The schools are, however, important in that they charge much less fees and accommodate more learners since they are cheaper to run. SMART SOLUTIONS The phenomenon of school fires clearly postdates boarding schools and has only gained notoriety in the past few decades. In any case, only 107 schools have been hit by protests this year compared to thousands of others that are operating normally. Scrapping boarding schools because of small pockets of unrest would be akin to attacking a mosquito with a hammer. The debate should take a broader view of the state of our secondary schools in order to come up with smart and abiding solutions to the problem. UNREST Education experts have cited poor management, drug abuse in schools, insufficient boarding facilities, congestion, lack of clear and open communication channels and copy cat behaviour among students, as some of the reasons for the unrest. These are some of the problems that should be confronted head-on, on a case-by-case basis, before we attempt a one-size-fits-all approach. While we encourage the exchange of ideas, the hypothesis should be what we can do to improve secondary school education, rather than whether or not we need boarding institutions. We need a broad-based conversation, and not simplistic propositions.  