The Athletics fraternity was thrown into mourning Wednesday morning following the death of 2015 World 400m hurdles Championships Nicholas Bett in a road accident along the Eldoret-Kapsabet road. President Uhuru Kenyatta led the country in mourning the 28-year-old. "Deeply saddened by the death of former 400m hurdles World Champion Nicholas Bett who died today in a tragic road accident. Bett earned the country great honours in his outstanding victories. My deepest sympathies and heartfelt condolences to his family, relatives and friends," President Kenyatta posted on Twitter. Athletics Kenya also posted a condolences message on their Twitter handle. "We regret to learn of the sudden demise of one of our top athletes, the 2015 400m Hurdles World Champion #NicholasKiplagatBett who represented Kenya in the just concluded Africa Championships. Our condolences to his family and the entire athletics fraternity. "Former 400m hurdles World Champion Nicholas Bett has died in a road accident in Nandi County. On behalf of the sporting fraternity and @moscakenya I convey my sincerest condolences to his family .Rest in peace," Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Echesa on Twitter. "Our deepest condolences to the family of the late Nicholas Bett Ex-champion 400M hurdles through tragic road accident in Nandi today. May God almighty give you the fortitude to bear this loss. RIP champ," Nandi County Senator Kiprotich Arap Cherargei on Twitter. “My sincere and heartfelt condolences go out to the family and friends of Nicholas Bett, the 2015 World 400m hurdles champion. You made Kenya proud and you will be missed by the entire nation and the Athletics fraternity. We have lost a champion,” media mogul and businessman Chris Kirubi posted on Twitter. “Learnt with pain and grief the death of 400 metres hurdles champion Nicholas Bett through a road accident. It is a big loss to Kenya and athletics fraternity. My thoughts and prayers to his family during this trying moments,” Baringo County’s Women Representative Gladwell Tungo on Twitter. “Let us mourn with the family of late Nicholas Bett, who died through tragic accident,” Wycliffe Inziani on Twitter. Rachael Musyoka posted on her Facebook page, “ My heart hurts. Young talent gone. This is the guy we nicknamed Straight outta lane 9. Go well Nicholas. Sad day. “Very sad news from Kenya, EX-400m hurdles world champion Nicholas Bett dies in a road crash in Nandi, a day after returning from the Continental Championships in Asaba, Nigeria. RIP,” journalist Collins Okinyo posted on Facebook.   Police say he hit a bump and lost control in Lessos.