Baringo Senator Gideon Moi is working closely with perceived Jubilee Party rebels from the Rift Valley as he reaches out to voters in the region ahead of the 2022 elections. Moiben MP Silas Tiren is one of the prominent lawmakers who have lately been working with the senator in his quest to wrest the region from Deputy President William Ruto. Mr Tiren has become a fierce critic of Mr Ruto after he was unceremoniously kicked out of the National Assembly's Agriculture Committee chairmanship early this year, and has attended several functions in the North Rift with Senator Moi. On Sunday, he accompanied the Kanu chairman to a church service and funds drive in aid of Turesia AIC in Elgeyo Marakwet County, together with Ainabkoi MP William Chepkut, an independent MP who has been increasingly leaning towards Mr Moi’s camp. INTIMIDATED Mr Tiren was categorical that the DP's 2022 political ambitions should not override the welfare of farmers, and that those championing farmers’ interests should not be intimidated. “Why should we talk about 2022 when our people are suffering due to unsettled dues for produce they delivered to NCPB?” Mr Tiren asked the Nation yesterday, in reference to efforts by Jubilee leaders from the region to market the DP. READ: Ruto gets backing for 2022 as he tours Baringo “We should not talk about 2022 when our people are suffering. People should not see us (rebels) as people who are being used politically. We will work with whoever is ready to address the welfare of the farming community,” said Mr Tiren. Apart from Mr Tiren, the other rebels include Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter, who has fallen out with Mr Ruto and has lately been opposing the latter’s 2022 candidature. Although he is yet to declare who he will support, he is said to be considering joining Mr Moi’s camp. KETER ARRESTED When Mr Keter was arrested in February for allegedly presenting fake Treasury Bills, Senator Moi went to the Muthaiga Police Station to try to secure his release. Although the Kanu leader is yet to come out clearly on his 2022 plans, his allies, among them Tiaty MP William Kamket, have hinted that party will go for the top seat. He said the independence party is an outfit to watch in 2022 and called for the refurbishment of its offices countrywide. “Please start painting all Kanu offices. The 2022 government is here,” said Mr Kamket in reference to Senator Moi’s 2022 presidential bid. ELECTIVE POLITICS On Tuesday, Mr Kamket called on voters from Rift Valley to scrutinise any leader seeking elective politics in 2022. “Angalia hesabu ya Kenya vizuri (watch carefully where Kenya is headed). You are not electing the chairman of the Kalenjin Council of elders but the president of Kenya,” he said. “We cannot allow 2022 presidential ambitions to kill the economy of the Kalenjin. The farmers' issues should be dealt with now,” he emphasised.   Moi said that 2022 succession talk is premature.