World Boxing Council (WBC) World Female bantamweight champion Fatuma “Iron fist" Zarika is set to defend her title against Mexican Yamileth Mercado on September 9 at Impala Sports Club in Nairobi. It will be Zarika’s second title defence, having outclassed former WBC bantamweight champion Catherine Phiri from Zambia to retain her title in December last year at the Carnivore in Nairobi. Kenya Professional Boxing Commission (KPBC) vice chairman George Adipo revealed on Wednesday that Zarika's WBC World title defence will be supported by several under cards that will feature World Boxing Council Silver Female super lightweight champion Judy Waguthii (16-8-4) of Kenya and middleweight fighter Rayton Okwiri (2-0-1). Zarika, who has not fought since December, made history when she dethroned Jamaican Alicia Ashley with a split-point decision on October 1, 2016 in USA, to become the first Kenyan to ever hold a WBC world title. Orthodox’s Zarika, 33, now has 29 wins, 12 losses and two draws (29-12-2) while her 20-year-old Mexican opponent has 12 wins and one loss (12-1-0). Mercado fought last on June 1 this year in Hermosillo, Mexico where she edged out her compatriot Beatriz Arangure on unanimous points in their super featherweight bout. Zarika, who shifted her training base to Liverpool, Britain two weeks ago, intimated that she has since parted ways with her manager Ejay Mathews of United States-based Bigger Than Life Promotion. Zarika said Mathews, who is yet to pay her full purse from her title defence in December, has not communicated with her since the fight hence her reason to part ways. “Matthews only paid me Sh300,000 from a purse of Sh800,000,” said Zarika, who was also not paid her purse amounting to Sh50,000 for her victory against Ashley. “I am here in Britain courtesy of my sponsor SportPesa,” said Zarika on phone. The mother of two is expected back in the country on September 1 ahead of her title defence. Zarika declared that she was ready to put her title on the line. “I am always ready for any eventuality since I haven’t stopped training after my successful defence in December. I have watched Mercado’s videos and what I only need to do is continue polishing on my defence.” Zarika said Mercado could present a different challenge from Phiri and she would prepare appropriately. Meanwhile Kenya’s Everline “Lioness” Odero will slug it out Monalisa Sibanda for the Women’s International Boxing Association (WIBA) World super lightweight title on September 1 at the Laico Regency Hotel. Bout promoter Caleb Kuya of Osaga Promotion said Odero (8-9-2) will engage Sibanda (5-8-0) in a 10-round bout. Sibanda, 35, once battled Malawian Ether Phiri for the combined International Boxing Organisation and WIBA World super lightweight titles in 2012, which she lost. Kuya said there will also be six support bouts featuring newly turned professional Elizabeth Andiego, who represented Kenya at 2012 London Olympics and 2014 and 2018 Commonwealth Games. Others are Sarah Achieng, Florence Muthoni, Jane Kavulani and James Onyango.  