Operations at the Kisumu International Airport were on Saturday night affected because of a lighting hitch. Passengers who spoke to the Nation said they were informed by their airlines of the cancellation of their flights at the last minute. Mr John Nyaga, who was meant to travel on 8pm Jambojet flight to Nairobi, said "the runway was in darkness and there was no landing and taking off from the airport." Mr Nyaga blamed Kenya Airports Authority (KAA) for the problem, saying they "were greatly inconvenienced." He said they spent almost two hours at the airport without any communication. “We were later told to leave and return in the morning (Sunday) to catch our flight to Nairobi,” said Mr Nyaga. KAA RESPONSE Kisumu airport’s manager Selina Gor had earlier denied claims the runway lights were affected. “The runway lights are fully operational," Ms Gor said on Saturday but Nation later learnt the repairs were already completed by the time the manager spoke. KAA public relations officer Angela Tilitei said two Jambojet and Fly540 flights were cancelled. She said KAA had informed the airlines to cancel the flights and inform their passengers. “If Jambojet passengers were stranded then maybe they were not informed in advance,” Ms Tilitei said. She said: “Our landing cables for the lighting on the runway have breached their time of use and the contractor is on the ground replacing them and it took longer to repair them last night.” She said the works delayed till 10pm in the night. “The lights were back around 10:30pm and the flight operations are now back to normal,” Ms Tilitei said. She said two flights did not depart from Nairobi “because we had given them information. Maybe Jamabojet did not inform their passengers,” she added AIRPORT UPGRADE The Kisumu airport underwent an upgrade that cost Sh3.3 billion in its first phase and Sh1.9 billion in the second phase. The upgrade took three years to complete. It involved setting up new facilities like access roads, a modern apron and a car parking lot with a capacity to hold 130 cars. The works on phase II involved construction of a parallel taxiway, a cargo apron and other associated facilities that included a new airfield lighting.   Passenger tell Nation they spent night in Kisumu after 8:30pm flight to Nairobi cancelled.