Deputy President William Ruto has told Jubilee leaders to ignore the prophets of doom predicting divisions in the party, terming those propagating politics based on tribal affiliations "enemies of unity and development”. He said that the party does not need lectures from outsiders on how to implement its development agenda saying, "We know where we came from, where we are, and where we are going. But those who think they can frustrate our development agenda because they are champions in fake news, opinion polls and newspaper headlines should know that they are wasting their time. We will remain in our development arena.” Speaking at Kamarich African Inland Church (AIC) in Aldai, Nandi County, after the Sunday service, the DP said Jubilee was formed on a strong foundation of unity and development. “Jubilee is the strongest party ever, with a firm and strong foundation because its owners are people who are tired of politics based on tribal backgrounds and committed to the initiation of projects like water, electricity, roads, health, education among others, which can improve the lives of Kenyans,” he said. TRIBAL POLITICS He added that some leaders who had benefited from tribal politics in the past are now fighting back. “Those criticising and undermining our development agenda are the same people who benefited from tribal politics in the past. This is why they are engaging in all manner of rhetoric, including predicting that our party is headed for division,” the DP said. The DP said Sh 1.4 billion has been allocated for phases two and three of the Last Mile Electrification project, targeting 30,000 new households in Nandi County. He said the Government plans to expand the Eldoret-Kapsabet-Chavakali Road as part of its infrastructural development across the country. INVEST IN EDUCATION Mr Ruto urged parents to invest in their children's education, and to take advantage of the government’s commitment to free primary and affordable secondary, college and university education to enrol their children in school, especially in technical education, to secure their future. “Our priority is to ensure that all children, irrespective of their family backgrounds, get equal access to education to improve their future,” said Mr Ruto. Present were Land Cabinet Secretary Farida Karoney, Governor Stephen Sang (Nandi), Senator Kiprotich Cherargei (Nandi), MPs Cornelly Serem (Aldai), Julius Melly (Tinderet), Woman Rep Tecla Tum (Nandi) and former MP Zipporah Kering. The politicians dismissed the recent Ipsos opinion poll on corruption, saying it was politically motivated.   Mr Ruto called for an end to tribal politics and supported the building of bridges.