Kyadondo East MP Robert Kyagulanyi, alias Bobi Wine, is set to face the General Court Martial in Gulu on  today. On Wednesday evening, the Uganda army flew  him out of the capital Kampala ahead of the court date. CHARGES “Yes, he has already arrived in Gulu,” said the army spokesperson, Brigadier Richard Karemire. The independent lawmaker, who was first presented in court on August 16, faces charges of illegal possession of firearms and ammunition, even though he was originally arrested on claims of obstructing the motorcade of President Yoweri Museveni during campaigns in Arua Municipality. Today, the prosecution is expected to give an update on the progress of the investigations into the charges. Mr Asuman Basalirwa, one of Bobi Wine’s lawyers, had earlier said the legislator would appear in the General Court Martial in Makindye, Kampala, at 9am, not at the army’s 4th Division base in Gulu where he was charged a week ago. “I was personally in Gulu last week and the chairperson of the General Court Martial directed that the subsequent appearances will be in Makindye General Court Martial,” Mr Basalirwa told the Daily Monitor. In his August 16 court appearance, Mr Kyagulanyi was charged in a closed court session, with only two of his lawyers permitted access. The UPDF and police deployed heavily in Kampala on Wednesday evening in anticipation of chaos as Mr Kyagulanyi faces the court. A visit to different police divisions and strategic junctions in Kampala showed heavy presence military and police personnel armed to the teeth. DEPLOYMENTS At Kampala Central Police Station (CPS), there were over four military patrol vehicles as soldiers were seen at City Square, Busega junction, Katwe Division Police headquarters and at Kaleerwe-Gayaza Road junction. Sources said over 2000 military and police personnel have been deployed and others put on standby to quash any protests in Kampala and its outskirts. “Police has prepared 1500 and army has assigned 700 soldiers to back up police in ensuring calmness in Kampala. Deployments will be heightened today [Wednesday] in the night,” a source added. Police spokesperson, Emilian Kayima, answered in affirmative when asked on whether they were anticipating riots. “There are threats of violence on social media and what we have got from our intelligence sources. People are being intimidated not to come to town and not to open up their businesses. The security situation can be maintained by concerned agencies and that is the police and army,” Mr Kayima said. Meanwhile police said the 137 suspects arrested during the Monday protests were being screened so that innocent ones can be released. Mr Kayima added that the suspects who will be found to have breached the law during the demos will be charged in court.   Washington-DC-based Amsterdam & Partners LLP to represent him as he faces Court Martial.