President Uhuru Kenyatta will on Sunday address his first public rally in Nyanza since his historic March 9 deal with opposition leader Raila Odinga. The Head of State will address the public in Gusii Stadium, after giving his speech to mark the International Youth Day to be held in Kisii County. Public Service Cabinet Secretary Prof Margaret Kobia confirmed that the President will attend the youth meeting, the seventh in a series of activities that started on Monday. “After the youth-only meeting, the Head of state will address a public rally at Gusii stadium,” Kisii Deputy governor Joash Maangi told the Nation on Thursday. POLITICAL LULL It will be the first time President Kenyatta will be visiting the region, after what has been a political lull following his handshake with Mr Odinga. President Kenyatta is expected to address the more than 2,000 youth from 47 counties, with at least 1,000 of them drawn from Kisii, and who have held weeklong events to commemorate the International Youth Day. Mr Maangi said a team from the national government is already in town to ensure everything runs smoothly. SAFE SPACES The county will be hosting the International Youth Day on Sunday at the Gusii Stadium; this is part of global events under the United Nations to address challenges facing the youth in the world. This year’s theme is ‘Safe Spaces for the Youth’, a discussion on how young people can come together and discuss problems affecting the society as well as allowing them to be part of mainstream decision-making. “Safe spaces such as civic spaces enable youth to engage in governance issues; public spaces afford youth the opportunity to participate in sports and other leisure activities,” says a statement on the theme, prepared by the UN Programme on Youth. ACROSS BOARDERS It adds: “Digital spaces help youth interact virtually across borders with everyone; and well planned physical spaces can help accommodate the needs of diverse youth especially those vulnerable to marginalisation or violence.” The UN calls for inclusion of youth from diverse backgrounds which it argues is important for social and political cohesion and in achieving Sustainable Development Goals on inclusivity. The event has excited local youth in a country where many are unemployed. The recent UNDP report puts unemployment in Kenya at 39 per cent. Though this figure is not just about the youth, they constitute the highest portion of the jobless group. GRIEVARANCES Kisii County Youth President Denis Orioki said they were ready to host the guests and will be pleased to talk to the President. "The youth leadership in the county has prepared well and I welcome residents to come and interact with government officials,” he said. Kisii University students finance secretary, Wangari Karibu said students will get a forum to raise their grievances. In preparation for the event, Kisii town has seen major construction of walkways and completion of Gusii stadium.   Kenyans sighed with relief when President Kenyatta and ODM leader vowed to work together.