IN MUSANZE, RWANDA Kenyan schools will be in action on Monday looking for good starts on Day Two of the 17th edition of the Brookside East Africa Secondary School Games across different venues here. In boys’ basketball, Kenyan champions Laiser Hill begin their hunt for an eighth title with a match against Kibuli Secondary School of Uganda in Pool B. The Kajiado-based school’s last triumph in the region was in 2012 in Bujumbura, Burundi and they will be out to end their six-year drought for the crown. Laiser had a disappointing outing at last year’s games, failing to go past their group stages and skipper Sheldon Ouma believes they have learnt from those mistakes. “I think we have a better squad this year and we have grown in our game and experience. There are some good teams out here but we want to return with the title and believe a good start will be key in this tourney,” Ouma said on Sunday. Kenya’s second representative in the sport, Sigalame High School make their bow in the tourney with a tie against homeside APE Rugunga on Tuesday in Pool A. In girls’ basketball, 2016 winners Kaya Tiwi begin their hunt to reclaim the title against Rwanda’s LDK in Pool B. The three-time national champions were bronze winners at last year’s games in Gulu, Uganda. In Pool A, debutantes Butere Girls face a baptism of fire against 2015 winners St Mary’s Kitende of Uganda. Football representatives Kakamega and Olbolosat will also be in action on Monday in their respective pools. Kakamega, who won bronze last year, face Uganda’s B.S. Kimanya in their Pool B opener as newcomers Olbolosat debut at these games with a tie against homeside LDK in Pool A. “If we can get a winning start, we will have the confidence of going all the way in this tournament,” Kakamega skipper Chris Alpha Onyango said. In girls’ football, there will be an all-Kenyan clash pitting four-time winners Archbishop Njenga against Nginda Girls in Pool B. National champions Kwale Girls, who are in pool A, will not be in action until Tuesday. KWANTHANZE, ST ALLOYS CLASH Rugby 15s will see another all-Kenyan clash between national champions Upper Hill and six-time regional winners Kakamega. Kenya’s other side Menengai play Uganda’s St Mary’s Kisubi. The rugby 15s, rugby 7s, hockey and volleyball competitions will be staged in a round robin format. An explosive clash will be also witnessed in girls’ volleyball as champions Kwanthanze face Rwanda’s St Alloys in a repeat of last year’s finals. Soweto Academy face Cheptil in an all-Kenyan clash in Pool B. In the boys’ matches, former winners Malava Boys face PSVF Karubanda of Rwanda as Kapkonyolei make their debut against Uganda’s Wagwa. In hockey matches, four-time winners St Anthony's Boys Kitale play Musungu as Upper Hill face Uganda’s Ntare. In girls’ matches, former winners Kerugoya take on Tigoi Girls in another all-Kenyan tie. FIXTURES Monday Football Boys LDK (Rwanda) v Olbolosat, B.S. Kimanya (Uganda) v Kakamega Girls Archbishop Njenga v Nginda Girls Basketball Boys Kibuli SS (Uganda) v Laiser Hill Girls St Mary’s Kitende (Uganda) v Butere Girls, Kaya Tiwi v LDK (Rwanda) Volleyball Boys Malava v PSVF Karubanda (Rwanda), Kapkonyolei v Waigwa (Uganda) Girls Kwanthanze v At Alloys (Rwanda), Soweto v Cheptil Handball Boys Kibuli (Uganda) v Kimilili, Adegi (Rwanda) v Kanyawanga Girls Kibuli (Uganda) v Sega, Kamusinga v ES Kirambo (Rwanda) Netball Nyakach Girls v GS Gahini (Rwanda), Kaya Tiwi v St Alloys (Rwanda) Rugby15 Upper Hill v Kakamega, Menengai v St Mary’s Kisubi (Uganda)  