Time and place began to conspire, transforming potential misfortune into something tolerable, even a source of pride. These are amazing prophetic words from former United States President Barack Obama in his book, Dreams From My Father. They echo the dreams of his father, Barack Hussein Obama Sr, an unsung African hero but an icon who offered a ray of hope for the future without giving up. I was moved by the Sauti Kuu Foundation programme. An initiative by Dr Auma Obama, a sociologist, Germanist and journalist. She is the step-sister of President Obama, who launched it in Siaya. As the event went on at K’Ogelo village, I guess Obama Sr could have rolled in his grave appreciating the noble project by his progeny. REACH DREAMS These are some of the initiatives that Africa needs from sons and daughters of the land who have gone far and wide to reach their dreams. Success is not measured by how much one has gained but by the level of inspiration they give. A generation has received raw determination and hope. Talents will be tapped and future careers realised, nurtured and developed. This is an initiative that endeavours to foster the development of personal and social communication and leadership skills. This strengthens young people’s self-confidence and self esteem. As a result, it helps them to build motivation and perseverance. By and large, foundations such as Sauti Kuu are non-profit, non-governmental organisations. They are oriented to making grants to educational, developmental, and cultural or charitable purposes. Consequently, it is worth noting that such activities make imperative contribution to the economic, social and political strata of a nation. EGOCENTRIC CULTURE One may cast a rhetorical question and ask, how many of our African elites and leaders have remembered the less-privileged that never get such opportunities? Sauti Kuu must be highly appreciated and supported. We live in an egocentric culture that ascribes to the dictum ‘me, myself and I’, affinity for amassing wealth and not caring about the rest of us. While giving a keynote address in Johannesburg at the centennial of Nelson Mandela’s birth, Obama spoke of “the need look at that child out there who doesn’t have enough to eat or needs some school fees, let me help him out”. Giving hope to little boys and girls who live on the sidelines of history due to poverty and lack of support is gracious, to be cherished eternally. I long to see more of these initiatives fronted by our leaders who have been on the helm for decades. POLITICAL POWER Many are but just nondescript outfits geared towards fleecing the sponsors. Others are started as vehicles to fame and political power. Obama calls a poverty of ambition to just want to take more and more and more, instead of saying, “Wow, I’ve got so much. Who can I help? How can I give more and more and more?” The biggest challenge is to ask ourselves what are doing as individuals to help promote such initiatives. We need real voices in Africa like Sauti Kuu! Fr Omunyin is a masters student at Multimedia University of Kenya. omunyins@gmail.com.  