IN MUSANZE, RWANDA Kenya successfully retained the girls’ and boys’ hockey titles as the 17th edition of the Brookside East Africa Secondary School Games concluded here on Sunday. Saint Anthony’s Boys Kitale and Trans Nzoia Mixed were crowned winners in the boys’ and girls’ discipline which were played in a round robin format. The Kenyan duo of Musingu and Tigoi Girls took silver in their respective genders, while Ugandan side Kakungulu Memorial went home with the bronze medals in both girls’ and boys’ events, their best showing since the inception of the games in 2002. St Anthony’s cemented their place as the most successful boys’ team in the region after claiming a sixth title. And the team’s coach Kelvin Lugalia was ecstatic after their latest success, tipping his side to continue shining in the future. “These boys deserve to be showered with praises. Completing the double is no mean feat because this is usually one of the most competitive games at the regionals and this year proved to be no different,” Lugalia said. “Uganda is slowly catching up with us and we have got to ensure that we work extra hard to keep ahead,” he added. The Kitale-based school reclaimed the title they had last won during the 2015 showpiece held in Huye, Rwanda after topping the table with 13 points from five matches. They won four out of five matches, and drew once. Musingu took silver after winning four of their round robin matches, having lost their opener to St Anthony’s. They were also the highest scorers with 13 goals and conceded twice. Kakungulu Memorial from Uganda took bronze as Kenya’s third side Upper Hill finished in fourth place for the third year in a row. They finished fourth with four points after managing a win, a draw and three losses. In the girls’ contest, Trans Nzoia Mixed crowned their successful year with the regional crown to complete the double having won the national crown in Embu in April. Having finished second in their 2015 debut, Trans Nzoia returned to the regional scene stronger to win the title with an unbeaten run. They garnered 13 points following four wins and a draw, two more than national finalists Tigoi, who once again played second fiddle. Kakungulu finished third with 10 points, denying Kenya their traditional 1-2-3 places.   Katungwa scored the winner.