An entourage of fuel guzzlers leaves many gaping in awe as it whizzes past, tinted windows rolled up. Questions abound as to why such a large number of vehicles is heading in one direction. It could be Suswa, Tononoka, Kapkatet or any other stadium where a crowd can be gathered for mass hypnotisation. This scene officially kicks off the ‘Operation Shout From the Rooftop’ season in support of “one of our own” who has been cited in corruption deal(s). It’s that time of the year when the political elite, who supposedly represent the common man’s interest, deign to remember that their strength in the face of the threat of being prosecuted and sacked from their positions of power lies in their domicile; more so the youth, a significant part of the population. 265 MILLION It is quite sad and ironical that most of the young people the politicians seek out have many times been told by successive governments that the future is theirs; that sooner or later, leadership would be in their hands and that efforts which favour their progression and development would be set up. Unfortunately for many, this has become a mirage. The 2016 Global Youth Index places the youth population in Sub-Saharan Africa at approximately 265 million. Kenya’s youth population is considered to be among the highest globally, which shows their huge potential as vehicles of socio-economic and political development in the society. RUNNING BATTLES The vibrant population, as they are, have, however, mostly been used by the political class for their own selfish ends. In last year’s elections, for example, scores of young people lost their lives as they marched and engaged in battle with the security forces, having been swayed by the oratorial skills and rhetoric of the elite to rise up and fight for their causes. A few months later, those who ‘fell in battle’ have all but been forgotten while majority of those who walked the streets shouting themselves hoarse and engaging in running battles struggle to make ends meet. DEAL STRUCK But the children of these politicians never participate in the politicking. Why is it that our youth never ask why that is so? Instead, most actually end up with plum State jobs once political deals are struck while the real heroes of the politicking end up having to hustle. Mention must be made of the vision and good intention that the government of President Uhuru Kenyatta had when it set up the Youth Enterprise Development Fund to increase economic opportunities for young people. Sadly, such a noble venture ended up being a conduit for a massive rip-off and has since metamorphosed into a huge scandal involving mind-boggling amounts of money. IMMENSE POWER The story of what could have improved several young lives instead reads like a crime thriller. To add insult to injury, further monetary scandals have since been exposed, showing how deep the rot runs. This, alone, should be enough to have every self-respecting youth taking their political leaders to task whenever they are faced with issues of abuse of power. It is time the youth appreciated the amount of influence they have; to realise that, if they chose to refuse to be exploited and instead strove to put their energy in positive development activities, they could easily set up the pace of national development. Therein lies their immense power. Ms Ronoh, an administrator at the University of Kabianga, is a leadership and governance PhD student. ronohcarolyne@gmail.com  