The manner in which the Mau Forest evictions are carried out teaches us several lessons. The first is that the government is committed to preserving the forest. But the cost is something else. The inhumane manner in which evictions, not just in the Mau but even the slums, are carried out under the watch of the security forces is horrendous. Must we achieve our goals without considering the ethical obligations in the means used to evict squatters? Secondly, anyone who knows the water problems in the arid and semi-arid lands (Asal), in the deep interior of Garissa, for example, will tell you that when drought bites — and, ironically, when it floods — people struggle to recycle water to the last drop. WATER CONFLICT Water conflicts emerge: Family members turn against each other, people and animals go for each other, women are raped as they walk long distances to fetch water and religious leaders assume the role of government in supplementing or fully supplying water in far-flung homes. This experience helps to appreciate water towers and the need to protect them. But it also teaches us that there are Kenyans who have no idea about the value of environmental conservation. Unplanned logging, wanton charcoal burning and rampant encroachment into forests undermines the very reason why the Mau squatters must evicted. Political rhetoric to preserve the environment on the one hand and on the other scoring political points using the same environmental concerns while neither the forest nor the people are taken care of is absolute absurdity. HALF-HEARTDED EFFORTS Thirdly, water is life and, most unfortunately, there is no substitute for it. We must protect our environment in order to keep not only water flowing but also maintain the ecosystem. We must go beyond basic arguments that favour half-hearted conservation efforts and appreciate the complexity of our social realities. Even as we resettle the Mau residents elsewhere, the reality is that the population is increasing. Protecting the water towers without thinking about that is self-defeating. Even if the Mau evictees were resettled in Mandera, the population continues to grow countrywide. SURVIVAL INSTINCT Fourthly, countries such as Australia have attempted to develop a population control policy. They experimented with a two per cent population target policy (growth rate) although it was later abolished. However, the population growth in the country remains considerably low, hence its interest in admitting and naturalising a limited number of foreigners. Others, such as China, experiencing a population explosion, adopted the one-family, one-child policy. Although in the recent past that has been revised to two children per family, the population challenges remain. The aggressive business entrepreneurship of the Chinese is, in part, driven by the survival instinct in a populous country. 100 SKYSCRAPERS One can argue that, overall, Kenya has big unutilised tracts of land. But we neither have the political goodwill nor the financial wherewithal, for example, to turn the North into productive, inhabitable and accessible settlements for the over 40 million Kenyans. Fifthly, Mau residents, just like those in densely populated counties such as Kisii, Nyamira, Meru and Nyeri, have to contemplate living in highrise settlements. Land will not expand in proportion to population growth. Preservation of the environment for human existence will be compromised by unchecked population growth. Add to that the continuous subdivisions, especially of arable land. The Chinese have taught us that two or three villages comprising, say, 500 inhabitants, can live in one building. The whole of Kisii and Nyamira, for example, can do with less than 100 skyscrapers. The freed land can be used to provide the necessary environment — including rehabilitating drying rivers, increasing food production and drastically reducing pollution. Or are we ready for a birth control policy to check on children per family? MISPLACED SENSE Our problem is attachment to traditions and cultural beliefs that cannot improve nor protect the environment and a misplaced sense of “my space”. But with solid land policies, all these can be overcome as Mother Nature is not going to negotiate with us even with our advanced corruption skills. The solution to the Mau problem lies in modern housing. Dumping evictees in another area will only add to their misery, hence making them feel uprooted from their ancestral land. In the long term, we have no choice than to plan for the inevitable life in highrise apartments — call them skyscrapers. Dr Mokua is executive director, Jesuit Hakimani Centre. hakimanidirector@gmail.com  