Public universities in the country are crafting coping strategies amid low cash flow emanating from reduced admissions of self-sponsored students. The universities are mulling, among other things, closing satellite campuses, diversifying revenue streams and coming up with relevant programmes to attract more students. Kenyatta University on Friday announced that it had closed its Arusha and Kigali campuses as it set its eyes on achieving its 2016-2026 strategic plan, according to its Council chairman Shem Adholla. CAMPUSES Prof Adholla was speaking during KU's 44th graduation ceremony at the main campus when more than 5,000 students were conferred with various doctorate, masters, post graduate degrees as well as diploma and certificates. Last year, the government censured KU and Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture (JKUAT) for opening their Arusha and Kigali campuses without following due process and ordered them closed. The two KU campuses have not been operational since then. Other measures that the university said it has adopted include restructuring of its administrative units by merging related ones to curb duplication and wastage as well as revitalising the digital and open learning. BIG FOUR AGENDA Vice Chancellor Paul Wainaina said the university has embarked on various research projects on health, manufacturing, affordable housing and food security among others, all of which are aimed at contributing towards the achievement of the country’s Big Four agenda. Some of the ongoing projects include operationalisation of the 600-bed capacity hospital, which will have a molecular imaging centre with facilities for cancer management and research. The university also plans to establish the country's first national research centre for herbal medicine to promote affordable herbal medicine and promoting research on management of non-communicable diseases as well as protection of the country's water towers among others.   This is aimed at bringing financial and governance order in more than 37 private universities in the country.