Three pupils from St Gabriel’s Boarding Primary School in Mwingi and their matron are still undergoing treatment at Mwingi Level Four Hospital for injuries sustained in a road crash over the weekend. Dr Evans Mumo, the hospital’s medical superintendent, said Monday that the condition of the pupils had improved but they were still under observation and undergoing treatment. Two of them underwent surgery to repair their broken limbs while the third one was scheduled for a reconstructive surgery to be conducted by the Cuban doctors posted to Kitui County. OUT OF DANGER “The pupils are out of danger now but are still admitted to our wards. They have undergone various medical procedures to rectify and treat their injuries including broken limbs,” Dr Mumo told the Nation by phone. The hospital was also preparing to carry out post-mortem examinations on the bodies of eight pupils who died on spot in the Saturday night crash at Kanginga River Bridge and the ninth one who died while being taken to Kenyatta National Hospital, and whose body was returned to Mwingi. Kitui County Chief Officer for Health Richard Muthoka said the post-mortem examination will help in the proper identification of the bodies before they are released for burial. Dr Muthoka said the county government of Kitui has waived all mortuary and post-mortem charges and will also help the affected families in burial preparations. REQUIEM MASS Kitui Catholic Diocese Vicar General Father Joseph Mwongela said the church will hold a requiem mass for the 10 pupils on Thursday at St Josephs Boys Seminary School in Mwingi. “We’ve started burial preparations and the church, school community, the ministry of education, county government and all other stakeholders will gather for prayers after hospital authorities conclude postmortem examinations” the priest said. Ten pupils died and 28 others seriously injured following a grisly road crash involving a school bus and a truck near Mwingi town on Saturday night. The bus was travelling from Mombasa where the pupils had gone on a school trip when the crash occurred some minutes to midnight, just three kilometres before it reached its destination. It was a painful end to a journey that had exposed the pupils, for the first time, to most tourist attractions in Mombasa including Fort Jesus, Bamburi Haller Park, the Kenyatta public beach, and the Moi International Airport among others.   Pupils had travelled more than 600km and were just 3km away from their destination when crash occured.