Contractors working on public projects in Kisii have been told to improve on their efficiency or have their work terminated as the government moves in to stop underperformance. Deputy President William Ruto gave the notice even as he promised more funds for infrastructure upgrade in the region. At least Sh25 billion has been budgeted for roads upgrade in this financial year for the region, with a total of 500 kilometres expected to be done in the next five years. On Thursday, Mr Ruto raised concerns on the poor progress of some of the roads tendered by the government. LAZINESS While he congratulated some of the contractors for a well done job, he said some were lazy and that such behaviour will not be tolerated. An example is the contractor doing the Omoringamu-Kenyenya-Nyakoiba-Ogembo-Motonto road whose work the government has terminated. “His work is shoddy. We will look for another contractor to do the 75 kilometre road,” he said. President Uhuru Kenyatta, accompanied by his deputy, commissioned construction of the road last year. But nothing much has been done despite the government releasing money to finance it. “The contractor is lazy and we shall have a new one taking over,” Mr Ruto said at Tendere in Bomachoge Chache where he was addressing boda boda riders and owners. ACCOUNTABILITY He said performance is key in Jubilee government, and to achieve the 'Big Four Agenda', all players must deliver. He reiterated that prudent use of public resources is paramount, and that they are equally held to the same high standards of performance. “Transformation in this country will only be achieved if we all focus on our work. There are no two ways about it.” On power connectivity, over 75,000 households have been connected to electricity to date up from 34,000 in 2013. “But there are still pockets of places where electricity has not reached. We are consulting with the MPs in all the nine constituencies in Kisii County to reach these places,” he said. He was accompanied by MPs Alpha Miruka (Bomachoge Chache), Richard Onyonka (Kitutu Chache South), Sylvanus Osoro (South Mugirango) and Prof Zadoc Ogutu (Bomachoge Borabu).  