All school systems are set for Monday's re-opening of schools for the third term after the teachers’ employer met head teachers associations and union officials in an effort to address the grievances that had threatened to derail the education calendar. The Teachers Service Commission (TSC) Friday held talks with leaders of the Kenya Secondary School Heads Association (Kessha), the Kenya Primary School Heads Association (Kepsha) and the Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers (Kuppet) and resolved to address the issues they raised affecting the welfare of teachers. The meeting came a day after TSC met Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) officials for similar talks. ADDRESSED CONCERNS On Friday, Kuppet and the two associations gave their proposals to TSC on performance appraisal and contracting and promotion of teachers among others and the employer gave a commitment to address them. The meeting came two weeks after President Uhuru Kenyatta asked TSC to address concerns raised by teachers on transfers to avert a looming strike. On Thursday, Knut and TSC agreed to set up an eight-member team to look into the issues raised by the union. Representatives of the two will then retreat from September 30 to October 5 to thrash out the issues. In a statement released yesterday, TSC Chief Executive Officer Nancy Macharia said: “The parties had an intensive engagement on the teacher appraisal programme and it was agreed that the evaluation tool be reviewed to make it more effective in helping teachers improve the quality of teaching and learning outcomes. The union agreed to submit detailed proposals to be taken into account in improving the appraisal system.” HOUSE ALLOWANCE TSC and union representatives have also agreed that the in exercising its mandate of transfer and deployment of teachers, TSC would consider any personal mitigating factors on a case by case. Kuppet Secretary-General Akelo Misori in his statement said the union and TSC had agreed that the 31,000 teachers in Job Group C1 and 21,000 in Job Group C2 be considered for the 2018/2019 promotions and that those promotions to Job Group C3 and C4 be advertised. Mr Misori also wants the diploma teachers’ interview template be redesigned to level the paly field for their employment and house allowance be harmonised to remove geographical considerations. In their proposals, head teachers want students to be excluded from school boards of management during the appraising of teachers. APPRAISALS Kepsha chairman Shem Ndolo said it was time-consuming to apprise teachers and proposed that this be done annually. “We also want the issue of classroom observation addressed since we have shortage of staff in the country,” said Mr Ndolo. Kessha chairman Kahi Indimuli said their proposals are that boards of management must be involved in appraisal and more teachers should be hired. “We also have to reduce the issue of paper work,” said Mr Indimuli. He added that heads will also be trained on appraisals in order to make them effective. PROMOTIONS In a related development, TSC and Knut continued to pull in different directions on various issues affecting teachers a day after holding a six-hour meeting to address the very same issues. Mrs Macharia last evening maintained that promotion of teachers will only be effected when due and within the framework of the 2017-2021 Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) signed between TSC and Knut. Knut has been demanding for the promotion of the over 30,000 teachers who have acquired higher academic qualifications. The Saturday Nation has learnt that even though the issue of promotion was raised during the Thursday meeting, it emerged that those holding higher qualification did not meet one of the requirements, which is grade C+ and above in KCSE examinations. On Friday, Knut Secretary General Wilson Sossion said the union would ask its members to stay away from school and that the strike will only be called off after TSC addressees teachers' grievances. “Knut would like to categorically state that the union has not vacated its position on the proposed strike as the power of calling off strike rests with the National Executive Council (NEC)," Mr Sossion said. However, the Knut council has not met and neither has it issued the seven-day strike notice as required by law. PERFORMANCE Mr Sossion was also headed for showdown with TSC when he asked teachers not to engage in the Teacher Performance Appraisal Development (TPAD) programme and the signing of the performance contracts until further notice. “Knut stresses that teachers in the public service should not entertain it or any other policy that will undermine or demean the teaching profession,” said Mr Sossion. In a press statement, the TSC distanced itself from promising to promote the over 30,000 teachers who have acquired higher diplomas, bachelor’s and master’s degrees. It also said the teacher appraisal system will continue to be in place.   Knut and Kuppet officials set to hold talks with the commission this week.