Nothing can ruin the gains on the health benefits of exclusive breastfeeding than advising mothers to introduce solid foods to babies at three months. That is what a study by British researchers, quoted in the Daily Nation of August 23, is likely to do as it focuses more on how babies behave and less on the implications on their health. The study puts a spin on global efforts championed by the World Health Organization (WHO) on exclusively breastfeeding babies for six months to reduce childhood illnesses and mortality, lower malnutrition and increase IQ. It also expands equity — babies of rich and poor families make similar gains that have an impact on their future growth and education performance. Introducing solid foods prematurely can reverse the benefits of exclusive breastfeeding to babies and mothers. It can have a devastating effect on health outcomes — particularly on poor families in Sub-Saharan Africa, whose source of nutrition is limited. EXCLUSIVE BREASTFEEDING The known benefits of exclusive breastfeeding, derived from years of robust research, cannot simply be wished away by the key finding of secondary analysis of the British study — that babies who start eating solid foods early sleep seven minutes more at night than those who are exclusively breastfed. The extra minutes of sleep may give a little comfort to mothers, but what are the clinical benefits to the baby? The foundations of exclusive breastfeeding are clear. The biggest concern in the low- and middle-income countries is the high risk of deaths due to pneumonia, diarrhoea and malnutrition. The United Nations Children’s Fund (Unicef) ‘2017 Child Mortality Report’ says 5.8 million children die before their fifth birthday — including 2.8 million from sub-Saharan Africa and 1.8 million from Central and Southern Asia. Only 43,000 of these children are from Europe. This variation calls for context-dependent interventions. It is importance to identify the underlying problems and get the correct solutions to them. If the mothers’ comfort is the major concern, the solution should focus on mothers, not babies. CHILD MORTALITY In settings where child mortality is high, reducing mortality and improving quality of life are key concerns. Application of research evidence need to take the context into consideration. Are the alternative interventions superior, cost-effective and acceptable? Will they improve equity? Consequently, studies in high-income countries that are context-dependent should not be applied directly to those with high child mortality, sanitation challenges, high poverty levels and poor healthcare-seeking behaviour. Nursing a baby is the most important stimulant of breastmilk formation. With less frequency of breastfeeding, with introduction of solid foods, there is less stimulation of the breasts to produce milk and, therefore, a potential decrease in breastmilk. To ensure adequate breastmilk production, solid foods should be delayed until six months. Kenya Paediatric Association strongly supports the WHO recommendation. We need extensive research locally to help parents to make the right choices to bring up healthy babies for a healthy nation. EASILY DIGESTED Breastmilk is digested 100 per cent in a baby’s system. Babies grow fastest in the first six months of life and, therefore, need to be fed at least every three hours, day and night. Just as in adults, food that is not easily digested prolongs the period one stays without taking another feed. Fortunately, breast stimulation as the baby breastfeeds triggers production of hormones that intensify the mother-baby bonding, calm the mother and induce sleep. Exclusive breastfeeding for the first six months of life may be demanding on the mothers’ time but the benefits to her, the baby and society are enormous. GLOBAL NUTRITION TARGETS It is commendable that exclusive breastfeeding is now government policy and one of the global nutrition targets. It is important to advocate the good practice, including encouraging employers to provide lactation rooms at the workplace. Many mothers know they should exclusively breastfeed a baby for the first six months and health workers are supporting them to learn the correct techniques and practices. Prof Irimu, paediatrician, health systems researcher and lecturer at the University of Nairobi’s Department of Paediatrics, is the secretary of the Kenya Paediatric Research Consortium, the research arm of Kenya Paediatric Association. girimu2014@gmail.com.  