Nairobi's South End Mall will be completely brought down within seven days, the multiagency team overseeing demolition of structures on riparian land has said. Nairobi Regeneration Committee command centre boss Julius Wanjau said the delay was caused by the height of the building that is located at the junction of Lang'ata Road and Mbagathi Way. "We are trying to bring it down while taking precautions so as not to risk any lives. The machines do not have the necessary height but we are hopeful that within a week we will be done bringing it down," Mr Wanjau said Monday. EXPLOSIVES The team is building a platform from hardcore stones for the bulldozers and excavators to climb to reach the appropriate level. Mr Wanjau ruled out the use of explosives, saying that the effect would be disastrous. "We can use explosives to bring down the building as this would make the process quicker. But this is not an option for us because of the associated impact of such an action," he said. LEGAL PROCEDURELast week, the team was to recommence the final part of the demolition but nothing happened. At the time Mr Wanjau said that the delay had been occasioned by absence of technical team members, who have to be present to give guidance on how the activity should proceed. The workers were also hit by lack of fuel. Mr Wanjau has called for calm, saying demolitions of buildings on riparian land will be done legally. "Let them not listen to rumours that we are going to demolish this or that place. We will only demolish places where notices have been served. We have a plan but first let us finish this before embarking on others within Nairobi," he said. CITIZEN PARTICIPATION The team targets to demolish 4,000 buildings built on riparian land and road reserves in Nairobi. Those demolished include Ukay Centre and Java in Kileleshwa. "Many people who had marks on their buildings have demolished most of the structures themselves. Kileleshwa and Kombo Munyiri, just behind Kamukunji police station, and Kiruga have had such demolitions done by individuals," he said.   Structures brought down by county officers and some by owners.