Is there a Kenyan celebrity who has accomplished more than Jalang’o? The multi-talented entertainer has grown into a one-man jostle of nature over the past few years, with a seemingly endless cavalcade of achievements in the showbiz arena. I’ve never seen a person more capable of doing so many different things so easily. He has steadily maintained his status as one of the most listened to and best-paid radio presenters in the country. He is also one of the most-sought-after MCs with mega gigs every weekend and as if that isn’t enough, he’s one of the funniest and most successful comedians locally. A CEO TO BOOT Oh wait…there’s more. He’s a CEO too. Jalang’o runs his own events management company which organises the popular Luo Festival. And did I forget to mention that he was once an actor? With such an avalanche of engagements, you can’t help but wonder when the man ever rests. If he isn’t the godfather of multi-tasking, then tell me who is and I’ll still tell you that you’re wrong. What makes him so special? Jalang’o isn’t really an inventor per se. There are a lot of other people that do the things he does but he somehow does them differently. He infuses the kind effort and energy that other people are all too reluctant to infuse. Sometimes that’s all it takes, putting in that extra hour that the other person won’t put in. UNIVERSAL HARMONY What’s also impressive is the way he has managed to create universal harmony around his brand. Rarely will you see anyone begrudging Jalango’s personality. He is the only celebrity who appears to not have any haters at all. That alone is a wonder. This has helped him immensely in his career. When a lot of people like you, you’ll be the first person they think of when there’s an opportunity that needs someone of your skills. Jalang’o also happens to very generous and sociable. Add his heavy dose of charm to that mix and you have an honourable man. This is worth noting because it’s quite common for famous people to be mean. Most of them don’t like seeing other people rise since they see them as potential competition. But Jalang’o has never seen it that way. The highly extroverted MC is credited with showing many people the ropes. A lot of young and influential peeps have narrated during interviews how he helped them rise to the top. The list ranges from Otile Brown to Chipukeezy to DJ Shitti. COVALENT BOND There’s a joke in the showbiz circles that if you are looking for a certain celebrity, you should ask Jalang’o. He’ll definitely have an idea of where they are hiding. Whether it’s a Gospel superstar like Eko Dydda or a notorious politician like Babu Owino, Jalang’o has some form of connection with them. However, all the success and influence didn’t come easily for him. Forget the vertiginous clumber to superstardom by many a comedian or MC. His accomplishments have come after years of tireless work. There are those who create fictional stories of how they suffered before they made it but Jalas has a legit rags-to-riches story. The odds were against him from the start. As a young man, he got a call to join Maseno School but he couldn’t do so due to lack of fees. After high school, he became a fisherman in Homa Bay because his father couldn’t afford to take him to an institution of higher learning. Eventually, he moved to Nairobi to become a houseboy before he got tired of that life and tried his hand in theatre. His big break came when he was hired as an actor in Papa Shirandula and he has hardly paused for breath ever since. His appearance in that show is what spotlighted his mastery of cultural scrutiny and down-home hilarity. A generally funny guy, he’s gone on to use that comedy muscle in all his genres of work. Today, that same man that was only supposed to only have a cameo role in a TV show is earning millions of shillings monthly. He still applies the same chops he learned early on in his acting endeavours to his radio and MC gigs. He might have toned down the aggressiveness but the magnetism and eagerness to please and sufficiently entertain huge audiences’ remains. At this point, all dictionaries should add ‘check Jalango’s career,’ in their definitions of the word ‘success.’ Speaking of dictionaries, the man qualifies as a local legend now and he should write a book. There are many people who write misleading books about the tricks of becoming successful, books that leave you still not knowing what to do once you turn the last page. I feel like, if written correctly, there are a lot of life lessons we can pick from a Jalang’o book. The final, most important thing about Jalang’o is the way he has set himself up as the perfect role model. With him, there has been none of the dramas or controversies associated with modern prominence. There has been no showing off or overselling the brand. He is always a well-mannered guy that you’d want your child or little sibling to look up to as a role model. And for that, he deserves all the praise and respect.   Octopizzo and I have a love-hate social media relationship.