Council of Governors Vice Chairperson Anne Waiguru has asked governors to fight corruption as they rollout development projects. Ms Waiguru, who is also the Kirinyaga governor, said the war against corruption must succeed. "We must fight corruption and ensure all the resources allocated for certain projects in the counties are used for the work they are made for," she said on Monday when she led her colleagues in touring development projects in Makueni County initiated through public participation. Ms Waiguru said the trip is meant to allow governors to learn from each other. FRUIT FACTORY The governors started by visiting the Geographic Information System (GIS) laboratory that was established to increase land-based revenue, reduce search time and enable access to land records for the existing 14,645 plots in the region. The GIS is a system of hardware, software, and procedures designed to store, retrieve, manage, display, and analyse all types of geographic and spatial data. The Sh5 million project was established through a partnership with the United Nations Development programme. The governors also toured the Kalamba Fruit Processing Plant that was constructed at a cost of Sh800 million. The factory focuses on processing mango purée and has employed 64 youth. In a period of five years, it is estimated that the turnover and production cost will be Sh344,700,049 and Sh294,915,844, respectively. PUBLIC PARTICIPATION The county bosses later visited Kwambila Dam, a man made dam, in Kathozweni that was constructed at a cost of Sh7 million. "The first phase of the programme focused on providing water for domestic use and small-scale irrigation, while the second phase involved fencing of the dam, establishing water treatment centres and constructing water troughs for livestock," Governor Kivutha Kibwana said. Prof Kibwana said his administration prioritises public participation before initiating any meaningful undertaking. While also championing for public participation, Ms Waiguru said the peer-to-peer learning forums will be rotational. On his part, Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa advised the governors to properly manage funds issued by the national government. Other facilities visited include Makueni Universal Health Care that offers inpatient services. It was build at a cost of Sh200 million. The county also teamed up with the Kenya Red Cross Society to establish Kaiti water swamp. Some of the governors in attendance were Wilber Otichilo (Vihiga), Charity Ngilu (Kitui), Stanley Kiptis (Baringo) and Alflred Mutua (Machakos).   Findings also indicate that 94 percent of Kenyans support the arrest of corruption suspects.