Former ladies national golf champion Naomi Wafula beat holder Angel Eaton of Tanzania’s Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club by two shots to re-capture the Ladies Coast Open’s Nyali Bowl at the par 71 Nyali Golf and Country Club course on Wednesday. Now attached to Kitale Golf Club and currently under Ravines Sports management, courtesy of the CEO Ruben Murage, Wafula carded seven over par 78 in the second and final round for a total of 151 gross. Her last major victory was in the same tournament in 2016 where she won both the Nyali Bowl and the first leg of the ladies Coast series at Leisure Lodge. “I have been practising for this event because I usually play well in most of the courses at the Coast," said Wafula, who has been hitting at least 200 balls daily and two hours of chipping and putting. “I am so grateful to my manager Ruben (Murage) for his support that ensured I get back to the national and international golf scene." During the last round, Wafula dropped a shot at the 13th, having bogeyed three holes and a double at the par five-fifth. Defending champion Eaton carded four over par 75 in the closing round having started with 78, for to wind up on 153 in second place. Another Tanzanian player, Madina Iddi, who won the Kenya Ladies Open Strokeplay Championship last month, finished third on 153 after losing the runner up prize to Eaton on countback. Tanzania's Vicky Elias was fourth on 156 gross. Loise Akinyi from the Rose Naliaka Academy took the nett title on 142 with Nyali’s Susan Stokes finishing second on 143 and a shot better than Lucie Maina. The fourth prize went to Vet Lab’s Racheal Ndei with 145 nett while Ashley Awuor and Faith Ontune from the Rose Naliaka Academy won the first and second round nett on 68 nett each. In the bronze division, Royal Nairobi’s Rosemary Kioni posted gross 185 to win by two from Kerry Venturini, while Mary Kandu was third on 188 after a countback with Hildah Mugure. The nett title in this division was won by Jammie Gachaga on 141, one better than Alice Mwangi on 142 while Carole Mungai posted nett 143 for third place. Lena Breitner won the fourth prize with 145 and the two nett winners were Petty Kigwe and Grace Kibe on 70 nett. Carol Kiengo emerged the Rosebowl champion after returning the best all nett score of 131. She also teamed up with Irene Auma to take to Karen the Leslander title on 278 nett. The ladies were playing at Vipingo Ridge at the time of writing before they switch to the Links Mombasa Golf Club course for the Mombasa Cup, the last event in the series.  