Muthaiga lady golfer Nancy Ndungu beat former club captain Maurice K’anjejo on countback with an excellent score of 41 points to claim the overall title in the AHF Chairman’s Golf Challenge at the par 71 Muthaiga Golf Club course on Saturday. Playing off handicap nine, Ndungu birdied the par four-17th in addition to a total of 13 pars for 21 points at the back nine where she also bogeyed the 12th and 13th having picked up a bogey at the par three-second and a double at the fifth hole. K’anjejo, on the other hand, started well, posting 23 points at the front nine, although he dropped six shots all together with only one birdie for a back nine score of 18 points to lose the overall title on countback but take the men’s first prize. Sam Karau carded 38 points to beat George Njuguna Njugu and fourth placed Robert Ngugi on countback. In the ladies section, Rose Koome returned 37 points to win by two points from Florence Maina as Mary Maingi on 33 was third. Railway’s Jane Ndirangu was the best lady guest on 38 and in second place with 35 was Annie Muteithia who posted 35 points. The men's guest winner was Richard Githii on 33, one better than Pius Mworia while leading the staff was Patrick Gichira on 21 points ahead of Stephen Karau. Philip Kungu and Michael Karanja won the nines on 21 points each and taking the longest drive for men was Joseph Karanja while Jane Ndirangu won the ladies prize as Mary Maingi and Ndirangu Mwangi won the nearest to pin prizes. SUPERGOLF CHAMPIONSHIP At Nyahururu, James Wachira posted 40 points to win by two points from Solomon Karanja and James Karanja as Nicholas Kamau on 37 points was third. In the ladies' section, Mary Wanjiku on 38 points beat E. Wambui by three points. At Vet Lab Sports Club, Kariuki Njenga posted 39 points to win the men’s prize in the Supergolf Championship final sponsored by Carl Wambasi and George Mburu. Onesmus Kibuna was second on 38 after beating Muchau Githiaka on countback, while Jared Osoro on 37 was fourth. The sponsors winner was Eric Mugo on 39, one better than George Mburu while in fourth place was Fernando Wangila on 37, one point better than Nicholas Imbugwa. The ladies prize went to Hellen Manyara on 37, beating Rachael Kimani by a point and Eunsuk Yoon was third with 35 points. Pranay Shah won the junior’s prize with 33 points, as Royal Nairobi pro Eric Ooko carded three over par 75 to win by a shot from Jacob Okello of Golf Park, with David Wakhu finishing third on 77 gross. At Nakuru, Harsh P. Shah carded nett 71 to win the Nakuru Junior Strokeplay competition on countback from Wesley Kihumba while Gladys Koinange was third on 72 nett. Anish Sharna was the boy winner with a score of 72 nett and the girls' title went to Banedeta Steinmann on 73 with Ali Wasim winning the gross on 91. In the nine to 12 years category, James Irungu beat Jed Njehia on countback with 47 points as Jayden Kipyego on 54 was third. The eight years and under contest was won by Peter Githiaka on 33 nett.  