At the fall of darkness on Friday, August 5, 1988, Ugandan born Captain Justus Tumwikyirize radioed the control tower at the Kilindini harbour to communicate that his vessel, “The Harrier”, was undocking from the berth into the high seas. His destiny was a site in the shorelines of Zanzibar islands where a sister ship, “The Venturer,” was stuck at a prospective oil drilling site. On board with Captain Tumwikyirize were five other crewmen. The vessel was originally a tug for towing chores just within the port, with only a crew of two and no cargo allowed on board. However, it had been improvised and allowed to take a maximum cargo of 43 tonnes. Days to take-off, the vessel had officially declared it would have aboard the maximum allowed cargo which would include four tonnes of fresh water, two weeks supply of food, 24 bags of drilling chemicals, plywood and chain-links. The Japanese-built vessel was owned by a maritime company called Cormaco but available for hire by interested clients with cargo to transport across the East African waterfront. RAS SERANI About half-an-hour after it had drifted off the harbour, the vessel was still in touch on radio and a signal was received at Ras Serani signal station near Mombasa where sailing vessels catch up speed to enter the high seas. But come morning, the radio operator at Comarco offices reported to his superiors that there had been no more signals after the vessel had ventured into high seas. At first the company director, J.H. Nielsen, wasn’t worried as it was normal for a signal to miss at one station but be received at another. He instructed that all signal stations within Mombasa, the Tanzanian port of Tanga, and Zanzibar islands be contacted. They all drew a blank. More shock was awaiting the company director when he called the Mombasa port only to be told that the vessel hadn’t left a list of crew members as it was required in the port regulations. He immediately hired a small plane and did an aerial search at the Kenyan coast but came back clueless. Still hopeful, the company sent its other three vessels to conduct a search in the high seas but still to no avail. It is at that point when Kenyan authorities intervened and the Kenya Navy mobilised to scour the entire Kenyan shores. Help was also sought from the governments of Tanzania and Somalia. But, after a 10-day search that entailed scouring and high-sea diving off the waterfront between Kenya and Zanzibar, the search was called off. VESSEL SANK No debris was ever found to suggest the vessel sank to the depth of the deep blue sea. And no floating bodies or personal effects were found floating or washed ashore to give a hint as to what might have happened. Subsequently, the Kenya government set up a judicial commission of inquiry to look into the riddle of the disappeared vessel. It was chaired by then High Court Judge Emmanuel O’kubasu. Two years later, the O’kubasu commission arrived at the conclusion that the vessel had sunk due to overloading. But many questions were left begging for answers. First was the question of excess crew. Why was the vessel allowed to leave the port with a crew of six yet it was allowed a crew of not more than two? It came out at the inquiry that the vessel’s captain didn’t declare the size of his crew as required by port regulations. But that wasn’t a good enough explanation as the port has responsibility to enforce the rules as it were. But, more intriguing, was the revelation that the vessel had an undeclared excess cargo of 3.89 tonnes. How was the excess cargo sneaked into the vessel? Who sneaked it onboard? More interesting, what was the content of the contraband cargo? WORRIED MAN The wife of the captain of the doomed vessel told the inquiry that for two weeks, her husband had been a worried man and that he confided in her that some people he didn’t mention were insisting that he include in the Zanzibar trip some excess and illegal cargo, and have excess crew. He told her he would be writing to her employers to object to the trip. But the owners of the ill-fated vessel, Comarco, said they never received any such letter, and that if they did, they would have taken prompt action. But the mystery remained as to who was forcing the captain to carry “excess and illegal” cargo since the mission to Zanzibar was an in-house assignment to rescue a sister vessel. Could the captain of the vessel have been moon-lighting for other people behind his employer’s back? Or was there collusion between officials at the port of Mombasa to sneak in contraband cargo for their secret customers? NIGHT HOURS Over a decade after the fate of the ill-fated vessel was sealed by the judicial commission of inquiry, I was at the coast on an assignment unrelated to the mystery of the disappeared vessel. The Nation’s Mombasa Bureau Chief at the time, Mr Njuguna Mutonya (May God rest his soul in eternal peace), had made it a habit to make sure no colleague sent on assignment at the coast left the place before he had taken them out “to see the town” as he used to put it. Ironically, “the seeing the town” inevitably came in the night hours, and it struck me Mr Mutonya knew Mombasa better at night than during the day. It is while on those nocturnal tours with my colleague that we settled for a drink with a retired Kenya Navy officer well known to him. As we talked on this and that, the subject of the disappeared vessel came up and we asked the retired officer to tell us what could have happened. He told us the vessel didn’t sink because of overloading as concluded by the judicial inquiry. It was deliberately fired at from another vessel immediately it ventured into the high seas. UNFORMATION WITHHELD The retired officer told us the Kenya Navy knew for sure what happened but the information was officially withheld. So, why was the vessel sank? It would be something to do with the illegal excess cargo sneaked in at the port of Mombasa. He told us a powerful foreign government knew what the contraband cargo was and had severally warned the Kenya government against transportation of similar cargo. Sinking the ill-fated vessel was a warning shot to peddlers of the illicit cargo and their accomplices in high places that they were being watched and wouldn’t be allowed to get away with murder. The retired officer never told us which powerful foreign government ordered the shooting of the vessel. We didn’t bother to ask what the illegal cargo was as we could guess it for ourselves. End of the story. kamngotho@yahoo.com  