This year’s National Youth Week kicked off on August 6, 2018 with tree-planting led by the Deputy President William Ruto in Makueni County and climaxed on August 12 at the International Youth Day celebrations officiated at by President Uhuru Kenyatta in Kisii County. In the Kenyan context, where youth concerns revolve around empowerment and inclusion, the theme, ‘Safe Spaces for Youth’, was interpreted to focus the country’s attention on the spaces that have been and continue to be created for youth inclusion and participation in social, economic and political spheres of national development. CLEARANCE CERTIFICATES County governments, civil society organisations and development partners organised educational forums and dialogue sessions that prioritised the youth agenda. Practical solutions to youth challenges were presented. Many partners involved in youth empowerment programmes made their contributions. The National Assembly, through the Kenya Youth Parliamentary Association, organised for youth to have a parliamentary experience with each constituency nominating two youth to sit and contribute to a full day of House proceedings. One concern expressed repeatedly was on the requirement for clearance certificates to get a job. However, Parliament had already amended the employment clause to remove the requirement. In Kisii, one youth challenged the governor on the inclusion of people with disabilities. The response was the prompt appointment and reservation of opportunities for the disadvantaged in the county government. MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES Youth who have exploited the opportunities in online work and earn from global multinational companies through the Ajira digital platform introduced by the Ministry of ICT shared their experiences. Other programmes, such as the KCB 2Jiajiri, sensitised youth on entrepreneurship opportunities with focus on agricultural production, processing and marketing under the ‘Big Four’ agenda. Many young people came out to encourage and inspire their peers. Youth who benefitted from the affirmative funds, particularly Youth Empowerment and Development Fund (YEDF) and Uwezo Fund, shared their stories of struggle, challenges and triumph. MILLIONS OF SHILLINGS A woman in her 20s narrated how the youth fund facilitated her to set up and manage a small office supplies business that now generates millions of shillings and employs dozens of fellow youth. The Access to Government Procurement Opportunities (AGPO) affirmative action programme that spares 30 per cent procurement opportunities for the less privileged was the source of many inspiring stories. The commemoration in Kisii presented an opportunity for youth to engage directly with the top leadership. During their dialogue with the President, they sought clarification on the government’s paid internships, and Technical and Vocational Education Training (TVET) scholarships, among others. TECHNICAL SKILLS The President announced a facility to fund TVET students through the Higher Education Loans Board (Helb) and the setting of more institutions to take in 100,000 more youth yearly. The Cabinet also ratified the restructuring of National Youth Service (NYS), a leading trainer in vocational skills that takes in at least 30,000 youth from disadvantaged backgrounds. The President pointed out the opportunities in the ‘Big Four’. Youth have a clear opportunity to contribute in the agricultural food chain as producers and marketers, in value addition and agro-processing, aqua farming and the Blue Economy. As government invests more resources in providing better housing for the citizens, youth can reap dividends by using their artisan and technical skills, which are required in the construction sector. The skills will also be exploited in the manufacturing sector. UNEXPLOITED SPACES But as President Kenyatta told the youth, opportunities will not fall on their laps; they need to step out of their comfort zones to fight for their spaces. They should be proactive and use their numbers to gain their spaces in leadership, employment and other sectors. They must play a role in the fight against corruption since their generation stands to lose the most to graft. As the oversight organ on youth empowerment, the Ministry of Public Service Youth and Gender Affairs is steadfast in supporting young people by opening more unexploited spaces for them. Participation and inclusion of youth perspectives will continue the dialogue opened during the National Youth Week, and in the implementation of youth programmes. Prof Kobia is the Cabinet Secretary, Ministry of Public Service Youth and Gender Affairs. cs@psyg.go.ke  