It is surprising that in the current charged atmosphere of fighting corruption, no reassuring word to Kenyans has come from the Executive on the recent allegations of bribery in Parliament following the flopped sugar report. Neither was there a word of caution, reprimand or assurance to the citizens on any punitive action on the behaviour of Mr Mike Sonko, the Governor of Nairobi, and Mr Ferdinand Waititu, the Governor of Kiambu, regarding the recorded conversation they had, which was broadcast on the former’s social media account. Council of Governors has also been silent on that. Interestingly, COG warned Mr Sonko for recording conversations but not for boasting about breaking the law. How much more of guilt state can be inferred than someone saying “I am breaking the law” and bragging that he would circumvent the law to influence the release of a suspect from lawful custody? TERRORIST Had the subject matter been a terrorist and not a wife of a governor, and he actually influenced the release of the suspect, and the suspect ended up blowing up the country to smithereens, we would have had a harrowing story to tell by now. You have abuse of office charges, too, with bells on. ‘Orders from above’ (whatever that is!) has always been a conduit for abuse of power and corruption and should never be entertained. In fairer jurisdictions, the two men would have faced prosecution and/or lost their jobs. The Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) recently moved in with the speed of light and pursued ordinary Kenyans such as Daudi Nzomo and Evans Kasyoki when videos emerged of the evidence of criminality that they were involved in. The silence now from the CoG, the DPP and the State on Mr Sonko and Mr Waititu’s act and that of some MPs leaves a lot to be desired. It is grossly unjust to eschew the law so as to always pursue the ‘small fish’ and not the ‘connected’ and powerful. When the expenses scandal hit the British Houses of Parliament, investigations were immediately launched. Prosecution and prison terms for any member of the House of Commons and House of Lords found to have fiddled with the numbers followed. It didn’t matter whether that involved billing the State for personal toothpicks. FALL LIKE FLIES It was incredible to see MPs and Lords fall like flies. Most of the MPs who escaped jail through technicalities were sent packing by their constituents for the shame they brought them. High moral ground was not only walked by the criminal justice system but also the voters, who exercised their civic duty by firmly acting in favour of fairness and justice for all. When will Kenyans realise they deserve better? The level of impunity in our country is staggering. It is something that is picked up globally and has had a negative impact on our socio-economic advancement. A lot of our social and legal challenges are a manifestation of the bad way the society has been run for decades. Our salvation is now hinged on the realisation finally that corruption has undermined our way of life and needs to be expunged from our midst. To a large degree, our economy is dependent on local and international investment. Investor confidence can only be won by sustained and honest efforts in not just combating corruption but making sure the mechanisms to fight it run smoothly and go around without discrimination. LAWLESSNESS Letting senior officers get away with lawlessness makes the law not worth the paper it is written on. It is a sure way of sliding into gangsterdom and the country becomes one big jungle where only the fraudulent can survive. We are blindly walking into a Mafia state and our lawless behaviour could have a lasting negative impact on generations to come. The government should not only be heard fighting corruption but be seen to do it. The first and most important way is to constantly reassure the citizenry and investors that it has an eye on the ball and can be depended upon to act fast on any crime regardless of the suspect. FALSE HOPE It must realise that words carry weight and can have a detrimental effect on the confidence of the country. False hope is not even worth offering if leaders are not ready to tolerate it themselves. Kenyans deserve to be treated with a great degree of respect — not being callously split between the powerful and the helpless. We should be equal in the eyes of the law. The promise by the State to fight corruption offers hope to many voiceless and hapless Kenyans who hang on every word of hope uttered by the leaders. Selective application of the law does not augur very well for Kenya and reeks of a discriminatory way of fighting graft and other crimes. It is time we looked in the mirror and asked ourselves whether we are doing our best in creating an equitable society across the board. Ms Guyo is a legal researcher. kdiguyo@gmail.com.  