Defending champions Machakos County’s football team on Thursday thrashed Nandi 3-0 to keep their hopes of retaining the title alive at the Kenya Inter County Sports and Cultural Association (Kicosca) Games in Kisii. Caleb Muisioya opened the scoring in the 20th minute before Fredrick Kiamba added the second in the 39th minute. Festus Kikuve netted the third goal in the 74th minute from the penalty spot to ensure the champions entered the quarter-finals. Last year’s losing finalists Nairobi registered a hard-fought 2-1 victory over a Devolution side as hosts Kisii beat Mombasa 3-1 at the Gusii Stadium. But Mombasa claimed biased officiating cost them the match with coach Omar Karama claiming Kisii were gifted "an unfair penalty." "In football, like in any other game, the best team wins, but when your opponent is being favoured, that is unacceptable," he said. However, Kicosca national organising secretary, Ken Murini, brushed off the protests and said the games were moving on well despite few challenges which are normal in any event. In other results, Kiambu beat Busia 3-2, Bungoma edge out Kitui 1-0, Trans Nzoia hammered Kirinyaga 6-2, Nakuru pipped West Pokot 2-1 while Meru beat Siaya 7-6 on penalties after the two sides managed a barren draw in normal and extra time. In basketball, Kiambu will today take on Nakuru in the men’s final at Cardinal Otunga High School, Mosocho. The Peter Kimani-coached squad came from down to beat hard-fighting Uasin Gishu 39-27. Uasin Gishu will take on Bungoma in the play-off at the same venue from 9am before the final. Kimani singled out Geoffrey Ngang’a for praise, having stopped Uasin Gishu’s danger man, Antony Chomba, a procurement officer in Eldoret. "We started very badly and lost the first quarter to a very technical side, but after my players composed themselves, we were able to play better," added Kimani. In the women’s tournament, Uasin Gishu eliminated Bungoma 56-46 in the semis to set up a clash with Nairobi who beat Machakos 56-20. In women’s volleyball, former Telkom and Kenya international player Nicholas Kiama led title favourites Nyeri to the quarters by beating Kitui County 3-0 (25-8, 25-15 and 25-18). Trans Nzoia used height advantage to also proceeded, beating Wet Pokot 3-0 (25-19, 25-20 and 25-9). In Netball, Senate lost 29-39 in the semis to Bungoma. In chess, Siaya was on course to retaining their title after winning all their matches in the opening round of competition at the Kisii Mwalimu Hotel. Siaya’s team of Eddy Ogolla, Geoffrey Odero, Robert Atonya, Victor Okado and Noela Okwisa all won their opening matches on Thursday.  