Continental history does not favour Gor Mahia, but no matter. On Wednesday, the local champions will be in Algiers ready to achieve passage into the CAF Confederation Cup quarterfinals, a feat that has eluded them for close to three decades. They will however have to do it away from home and against an unpredictable Algerian side (USM Alger) that is equally determined to get to the knock out stage which comes with a Sh35 million bounty. While they are peerless on local soil, continental matches have been dicey for K’Ogalo since 1986 when they won the CAF Cup winners’ cup, which is the equivalent of the current CAF Champions League. Yet this year they managed to force their way into the CAF Confederation Cup group stage at the expense of South African club SuperSport United, and are now on the brink of qualification to the prestigious knock out stage. PENALTY LOSS The last time they got that far was in the 1992 CAF Champions League qualifiers when they beat Al Ittihad and Canon Yaounde in the first and second rounds before tumbling out in the quarterfinals via a 4-2 penalty loss to Al Hilal. It doesn’t matter that they are currently on top of their Group D. USM Alger also boast the same eight points in second place, two more than Rwanda’s Rayon Sport who will be facing Tanzania’s Yanga Wednesday. In light of the new rules that place head to head statistics ahead of goal difference as a tie breaker in this competition, the green and white shirts must collect nothing short of victory in the match to advance to the quarterfinals. Despite the magnitude of this match, the team’s technical bench was relaxed as they left the country on Monday, with team manager Jolawi Abondo saying that it will not be an ordinary match but a battle of epic magnitude. TOO CLOSE “It is war,” he said and added, “we have no other option but to win and we have come far too close to let it go”. The multiple local champions left the country early Monday morning fresh from wrapping up their 17th local premier league title, and took with them the rare but welcome blessings from government which came on Friday in the form of an offer of 20 air tickets to and from Algiers. They also carried the hopes of the entire green army which has had to wait 32 long years to see their team triumph at the continental stage, now that winning the local title has become something of a routine. HARSH TREATMENT Courtesy of the harsh treatment they endured in the hands of Algeria’s Esperance de Tunis five months ago, Gor have this time been meticulous with their travel arrangements, opting to spend tonight in Morocco and arrive in Algiers exactly one day to the match. This match could have been a mere formality for the 17 time champions, but they complicated matters 10 days ago by collecting a needless 2-1 home loss to Rwanda’s Rayon Sport in a match played at the Moi International Sports Centre in Kasarani.  