Mount Kenya University has partnered with two organisations to set up a e-health programme to enable Kenyans access medical care digitally. The deal with Henry Family Trust Fund and Afya Switchnet was unveiled on Friday during a graduation ceremony in Thika. The programme, which will cost Sh15 million, will be based at the university’s innovation hub in Thika. It will help academicians and researchers build successful digital health solutions. Dr Jaymie Henry, the Founding Executive Director of the Global Alliance for Surgical, Obstetric, Trauma, and Anaesthesia Care (G4 Alliance), said the organisation will provide technical support through software development, but its management will be handed over to Kenyan doctors. The hub will support and advance mobile technologies, cloud services, computer aided diagnosis and innovative care options. HEALTHCARE MKU chairman Simon Gicharu said the initiative will see doctors reach more patients. "They will work closely with our school of medicine. A part from providing technical support, the organisations will also provide monetary support," Mr Gicharu said, adding that consultations doctors will be done outside the hospital. "Access to healthcare in the region remains low and we hope that this new initiative will support this programme. "I am delighted to say that we are creating our own Silicon Valley within the university. "Our students now have a chance to use the latest technology to conceptualize and realize their innovations," he said. GRADUATESSeven students graduated with PhDs while 6,000 were awarded master's, bachelor degrees and diplomas. The ceremony was presided over by Makerere University Vice-chancellor Barnabas Nawangwe. Prof Nawangwe said university-industry partnerships promote academic growth and economic development as a result of pooling and sharing of resources. "Therefore, there is need for universities to forge relationships with industries to promote collaborative income generating activities," he said.  