Like I said in my last piece, I went to check out the new Nyama Mama as soon as it opened. Check it out I did. I will tell you the things I loved best about this brand new Nyama Mama experience. Don't worry, though - the fact that it is a brand new doesn't mean they've let go of the good old Nyama Mama magic.   The new outlet is at Capital Centre on Mombasa Road, and brings a much needed breath of fresh air to the mall. Before, the only food options were the often empty food court with a Galitos, Mister Wok (which I think has since closed shop) and Java -don't get me started on this.   The entry of Nyama Mama and a (clean) Naivas supermarket has done a great deal for this mall's facelift – so much so that I might actually start going there again. The décor is the same, but done across a much larger area – and it is beautifully done. The space that Nyama Mama now occupies was previously Haveli's, and even though I had been there before, I had no idea that the actual space was so large! They have kept it looking great with cute little additions like the Platform Nine and Three-Quarters signage under the administrative area, a few members being represented from Kenya's wildlife and quirky add-on, including but not limited to a hot air balloon basket. You got to love what Nyama Mama manages to accomplish in terms of ingenuity and nostalgia.   I like that they've kept more or less the same menus, with some of my favourites like the chapatti quesadilla staying on board.   However, I think they need to be a bit careful about service on this new branch. It appears as though they chose to do a whole new overhaul with the staff and the service is, unfortunately, lacking. The waiter got our order wrong, another didn't know how to describe what exactly was on the menu – and I am sure, dear reader, you can see why this would be a problem.   To be fair, the hostess and the branch manager a were perfect in their conscientiousness. While expansion comes with new staff, I would have preferred if they had brought over a few people from the old branch to look over the new branch, and train the newbies. Aside from that, I was well-pleased with my visit to Nyama Mama, and hope to go visit there again. Let me know what you enjoy there – the ribs are a personal favourite, and I must go back to test the cocktails. *** Wondering where to get the 411 on what's happening in Nairobi's foodie scene? There's a lot of places you could go, but here's where we want you to be – getting the dish on the dish. Get it? We knew you would.   The title was awarded to Nyama Mama brand during the World Luxury Restaurant Awards 2018.