Last week, while winding up a Friday meeting in Cape Town, we received information that our colleague, the dean of the Faculty of Health Sciences at the University of Cape Town had died earlier that day. Gloom engulfed the room, and all participants from all corners of the world spent the rest of the evening in a sombre mood. At dinner, we shared our memories of Prof Bongani Mayosi, a great son of Africa, a leader in the medical field, and a prolific researcher. While in the public eye his most discussed research work concerned the genetics of heart disease, his greater passion was in training and mentoring young physicians, both in clinical care and in research. His influence in medicine traversed the entire world. He was instrumental in setting up care and training programmes in cardiology at the Moi University/Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital complex. SENSE OF LOSS On Saturday, we learnt from the family that Prof Mayosi had ended his own life after battling depression for two years. All of us felt a keen sense of loss, and many in the psychiatry fraternity blamed themselves for not doing something about it. Prof Mayosi had, over the past two years, been noted by some colleagues to be less bubbly, and more introspective, but many did not make any connection between this and depression. Those who did offered help, but they still blamed themselves for not doing more. We all appreciated the fact that the family informed the world about his suicide, something many in Africa will not do. Here, depression remains a silent killer because we neither talk about its ravages nor about the many tragic deaths it causes by suicide. TERRIBLE ILLNESS Even many health workers do not fully understand the suffering depression can cause, and they often join the ignorant public, arguing that a person who takes their own life is a ‘coward’ who should have looked for help. Many people continue to propagate the ignorant stance that depression is a ‘weakness’ that must be overcome and that it is not a real disease. The truth is depression is a terrible illness that, like a virus, takes over a person’s mind. An evocative description I once heard a patient give is that when one is depressed, the whole world is drained of colour and everything is a shade of grey. Depression filters a person’s thoughts, letting in only the dark and self-deprecatory ones, and blocking anything cheerful. NEGATIVE EVIDENCE A depressed mind will interpret a smile to mean that everyone else is happy, and that the depressed person is the only one suffering. It will magnify any negative sentiment and make it the chief evidence of the worthlessness of their lives. The person with depression has often tried all sorts of remedies. Even hanging out with other people takes a huge effort and is supremely exhausting. A depressed person sees death as a way out of the suffering, and urging them to ‘think about your family, your friends; they love you!’ only increases the quantum of unhappiness and pushes them ever closer to suicide. Prof Mayosi’s death reminds us that depression spares no one, and that we must address this silent epidemic as part of greater improvement in the mental health of our populations. There is, indeed, no health without mental health. Lukoye Atwoli is an associate professor of psychiatry and dean, Moi University School of Medicine. lukoye@gmail.com  