The first three days of last month alone saw more than 200 migrants drown in the Mediterranean Sea, pushing the death toll for the year to more than 1,000. Perturbed by the incidents, I recently challenged stakeholders at a conference on financing higher education at the Makerere University Business School to scratch their heads over what learning institutions in Africa could do to cure this. I think if we made the opportunities — jobs, to be precise — in the West available in the continent, this exodus, which has claimed millions of lives over the centuries, would stop. If we exploited the massive resource endowment, the developed world would no longer call us “the next frontier”. It is a mockery to our dignity that, while the world is trooping to the continent to get a piece of Africa, our people are dying — literally — to go abroad. FATAL TRIPSStudies show that, while most of those who take these potentially fatal trips along illegal sea routes in pursuit of better lives abroad are poorly educated and desperate, a good number of them have a good education. Then we have another class of top-tier immigrants who, for their special talents, knowledge and skills, are lured by developed nations as they seek to sharpen their edge in development. For instance, in the United States, African immigrants are on average better educated than America-born people or the rest of the immigrant population. A recent report by the Migration Policy Institute also points out that, on average, Sub-Saharan African immigrants are more likely to participate in the labour market. They enter the management, business, science and the arts fields at the same rate as those born in the US. There are those who choose to remain at home but join criminal gangs or get radicalised into terrorism. Kenya has borne the brunt of devastating terror attacks organised and executed by its citizens. LOOK INWARD The onus is now on African governments and, indeed, key institutions such as universities to generate enough economic opportunities so that citizens with an education, expertise or talent can begin to look inward. Kenya’s deliberate focus on the Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) should, hopefully, change our undue dalliance with white-collar education to developing the desired human resources. African countries have made some progress in expanding educational institutions. In Kenya, for instance, the government started free primary education and partially free secondary education. However, there are still many children — millions in Africa — unable to access formal education owing to a multiplicity of factors. LOSING BEST BRAINSAs we churn out graduates, we have to create a local market for their skills. We can’t afford to continue losing the best of our brains. However, we cannot tap these talents if we do not provide opportunities for them to prosper in their respective fields. This entails providing them with remuneration that is commensurate with their skills. Our effort to provide a solution to emigration will not be complete without placing the quest for peace at the centre of it. Our work as universities is, therefore, clearly cut out. Mr Gicharu is the founder and chairman, Mount Kenya University, which operates in Kenya and Rwanda. simnyg2012@gmail.com.  