In this interactive series, we invite readers to send in questions to selected public figures. Answers will be published in the next print and online editions. This week, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangí responds to your questions 1. We know you are a hardworking CS. But you’ve snubbed parliamentary committees on various occasions despite getting summons. What makes you not to attend? Isacko Barako Boi, North Horr I have always attended and provided required information when I am invited by parliamentary committees. So, it is not true to say that I rarely attend. The few times I have not attended is because of conflicting official engagements at the appointed time. When that happens, I always request the committee to give an alternative date. 2. You have plenty of similarities with the late minister John Michuki. We demand you run for presidency in 2022. Are you contemplating doing so? Naphtali Kanegeni No one knows what future God has planned for. As the Holy Scripture says, we leave the future to the Lord. For now, my total focus and attention is on delivering on the job and mandate His Excellency the President has given me. 3. Why are “off days” for prison officers deducted from their annual leave days contrary to those of police officers who get their full “off days” and annual leave? Francis Omboki, Kisii According to the Prisons Code of Regulations, officers like other civil servants are entitled to 30 days annual leave, which are deducted when officers request and proceed for their leave. The officers are also granted off days when they are assigned to perform special tasks or extraneous assignments or work 24 hours. Additionally, compassionate off days are granted to officers when they are sick, bereaved or on any other humanitarian grounds. Such off days are not deducted from the annual leave entitlements. I will liaise with the Commissioner General, Prisons to ensure this is the case uniformly across the board and to ensure there are no exceptions such as you allude. 4. I would like to know if Miguna Miguna is a genuine citizen of this country. I also want to know if a person is born in Kenya, to Kenyan parents and it happens that person gets deported, can he return with an Identity Card as proof of citizenship? Njoroge Waweru, Kikuyu An Identity Card is not a travel document. Regarding Miguna Miguna, the government has no problem reinstating his citizenship and, in fact, immigration officers delivered to him the requisite forms to fill at the airport but he tore them. 5. Sir, are you aware that the Commissioner General of Prisons Isaya Osugo is past the retirement age, why is the government reluctant to appoint his replacement? Lekuiye Lekamparish, Maralal The process of recruiting the successor to the current Commissioner General of Prisons, Mr Isaya Osugo, will begin soon in strict adherence to the law. 6. Do you have immediate plans to develop a software which the police can use to record cases, instead of the current Occurrence Book that tends to disappear or be torn as dark forces demand? Carlos Kamau, Kiambu We are in the process of transforming and modernising our policing and this includes leveraging on IT to improve police operations and record-keeping, including the OB. We plan, for instance, to introduce a digital OB so that finally, crime and any other relevant reports brought to the attention of the police can be effectively recorded, tracked and analysed across the responsibility chain with less operational inhibitions. 7. I wonder when the relationship between citizens and the police will be cordial? Jacob Kyallo, Kitengela We have introduced a raft of reforms and curriculum changes to train police officers in modern policing, including good customer service. Significant improvements in policing are observable. I know we are not where we want to be yet but we are well on our way. In the coming days you will witness even more improvements in how we do our policing work. 8. You destroyed gaming machines and left highly addictive online betting. Do you ban something because it’s unsafe or because it doesn’t contribute to national income? Joshua Kamakia, Gilgil The reason for destroying illegal gaming machines is because they have caused a lot of social-economic pain and havoc among the youth. Our objective is to protect Kenyans in all ways. We are working with other government agencies to review the legislative ecosystem for gaming/gambling in the country. This will see us go beyond the slot machines to other forms of gambling. Let me be honest with you – gambling is one of the greatest socio-economic threats to the society that should be addressed by all responsible people. 9. Please deliver us from matatu cartels making investors and government lose a lot of money. Julius Maina The ongoing police reforms include transformation of the Traffic Department. 10. When you were in the Ministry of Education, you were making impromptu visits to schools. As Interior CS, why are you not doing the same in crime prone areas? Nathan Muthamia, Chuka Even at the Interior ministry, we dedicate at least one or two days in a week to visit various outposts to see how our officers are serving Kenyans. We have so far made visits to Kerio Valley, Busia Border post, Mt Elgon, Wajir, Nyeri and Kakamega, among other parts of the country. We may not have visited your neighbourhood yet but, by God’s grace, we will get an opportunity so that we can best serve you. In addition, my senior colleagues, both from National Administration and the police make trips around the country all the time. If there is anything specific you feel should be addressed, kindly inform us through some of our administration officials or drop us a note through the Ministry of Interior contacts. 11. From which rank are police officers allowed to ferry their children to schools in police vehicles? Githuku Mungai It is not allowed for police officers, irrespective of rank, to misuse government vehicles on private missions. 12. We have seen the government cracking down on the so-called illegal immigrants. There are hundreds of Somalis, Nigerians, Congolese and Sudanese nationals in Kenya, especially in Nairobi with no work permits but they have not been apprehended. Why is this so? John Okach, Moshi, Tanzania We have just completed work permits verification and registration exercise through which we detected and deported a number illegal foreigners working in the country. The government is committed to ensuring that only foreigners bringing in skills unavailable in the local job market will get work permits. 13. Much of the discussions in the public domain currently are about  corruption scandals. What are the gains you have made in fighting graft in your ministry? Komen Moris, Eldoret The President has been very keen on the war against corruption, dumping of contraband goods, irregular issuance of identity and travel documents and a sustained war against crime, among others. We have been privileged to contribute to these efforts by the Head of State. Besides, as a team in the security sector, we remain very focused on keeping our country secure and safe. I am grateful to God for the opportunity to work with all the great men and women in this sector and to have a chance to participate in the implementation of the President’s plan to ensure that national security remains the bedrock upon which his Big Four development agenda rests. 14. How do you intend to address the menace of public harassment by traffic police? Naphtali Kanegeni The ongoing police reforms are geared towards creating a modern police service, including radically transforming the Traffic Police Department to make it citizen-centric. I sincerely hear you and can relate to your concern. I promise that working with the current team of senior management in the ministry, we will soon significantly deal with this frustration that faces not just you but many Kenyans. 15. How will you fix the perennial Turkana-Pokot cattle rustling menace that is a serious  security concern? David Kigo To put it plainly, cattle rustling is no longer a cultural or intercommunal vice. It is an economic crime, sustained by criminal interests intent on taking advantage of the poverty and underdevelopment of some parts of our region. We are prepared to get to the bottom of it. We cannot discuss the whole plan here but can assure you that the security sector is sufficiently mobilised, resolute and focused on dealing with this menace conclusively, whatever it takes. Working with the county governments in the areas, the national government has a long-term ‘Marshal Plan’ strategy that will completely and positively transform socio-economic lives of some of these parts of our country. 16. You recently said more police officers will be deployed in Lake Victoria region to protect fishermen from foreign harassment. Is this the ideal situation or do we follow laid down diplomatic protocols to solve border disputes and demarcate boundaries? Paul Gesimba, Nairobi Posting additional police officers will enhance marine security. The border issue is being handled by relevant government ministry and departments. 17. What are your plans to better the dilapidated quarters of police and prison officers countrywide? Jeff Chepkwony, Sigor Plans are underway to construct additional staff houses through the ‘Self build’ initiative to meet the growing housing demand for Prisons in various parts of the country, including Bomet.  