The picture of President Uhuru Kenyatta walking with Archbishop (Rtd) Eliud Wabukala along the corridors of State House on Saturday confirms that the weak link in the fight against public looting has finally been fixed. But even without getting into the details of the State House meeting between the President and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission chairman, the recent brazen, and public, moves by the EACC against corruption suspects has left many a senior public official asking: Who will be next? WON THE HEARTS The arrests, which have been effected in collaboration with the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI), have, for good cause, won the hearts of the public. In the social media, the language of the users excited by the arrests and prosecution is “kamata kamata (apprehend them)”. Jokes abound on the arrests, that the suspected ‘big fish’ are hiding away from their homes. INTEGRITY CENTRE Integrity Centre, the headquarters of EACC, has been a hive of activity, hosting high-ranking members of the society, including sitting and former governors, MPs and county government officials with many of them ending up being ‘guests of the State’. The country was recently treated to footages and images of former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero’s arrest by EACC detectives from a high-end golf club. Dr Kidero, who spent two nights at Integrity Centre, and eight others face charges over Sh213,327,300 fraud in Nairobi County in 2014-2016. FRAUDULENT DEALINGS Dr Kidero’s public spectacle followed that of two of his former colleagues — Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong and former Nyandarua boss Waithaka Mwangi — also facing charges of corruption. More are said to be on the EACC radar. Sirisia MP John Waluke was also arrested over Sh297 million fraudulent maize dealings involving his company Erad and the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB). The EACC has also arrested and charged in court Nakuru Town West MP Samuel Arama in connection with land fraud. IRREGULARLY ACQUIRED The latest high-profile individuals to fall under the EACC dragnet are the National Land Commission chairman, Dr Mohammed Swazuri, and Kenya Railways managing director Atanas Maina, who, with 10 others, have since been charged with paying Sh221 million for irregularly acquired land. The recent case by the EACC to recover unexplained assets amounting to Sh600 million from a Kenya Revenue Authority employee is commendable. With the new zeal in the fight against corruption, Kenyans expect more from the EACC. SEEKING IMMUNITY Wabukala should train his eyes particularly on the counties, where taxpayers’ money, in hundreds of billions of shillings, continues to be misappropriated with desperate governors publicly seeking immunity from prosecution. Finally, it seems the remedy for the country’s hitherto incurable corruption malady could just lie in the archbishop’s divine connection — and the President’s assured support! Mr Mugwang’a is a communications consultant. michael.mugwanga@gmail.com. Twitter: @mykeysoul  