The Building Bridges initiative launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition leader Raila Odinga following their famous handshake on March 9 has cooled off political tensions, enabling regular operations to resume around the country. Even then, there’s a missing bridge in the raging debate about the real intentions of the two leaders and the impact of their political compromise. Talk about the initiative is animatedly focused on politics, leaving less room for dialogue on how to turn this powerful tool into an instrument of social and economic transformation. TRANSFORM LIVES While it has contributed to emerging economic opportunities, the BBI is not likely to solve the underlying problems that strangle the economy. The rising government and private sector debt burden, counterfeits, contraband and emerging political differences over the 2022 presidential poll dampen prospects for faster economic growth and social integration. Economic growth, up from 4.8 per cent in the first quarter of 2017 to 5.7 per cent over the same period this year, is encouraging but not sufficient to propel Kenya to the next stage of development. The ideal rate likely to transform Kenyans’ lives is 7-10 per cent but structural rigidities impose roadblocks on the critical path. For instance, the Central Bank of Kenya’s Monetary Policy Committee this week lowered the CBK Rate from 9.5 per cent to 9.0 per cent, signalling to banks that they should continue to expand credit to the private sector. FINANCIAL INCLUSION While bank lending to individuals and businesses is crucial to development and financial inclusion, there’s a weak correlation between the rates and the volume of credit to the private sector. This is simply because the banks make more money from lending to government, at lower risk, than to the private sector. This imposes constraints on the implementation and impact of President Kenyatta’s ‘Big Four’ agenda. While government spending is being aligned to the plan, bank credit is not. Investors in agriculture and manufacturing, particularly, struggle to raise funding for their activities, compromising their ability to make a greater contribution to food security and manufacturing value added. GOD'S GRACE Bridging the gap between demand and supply of credit to the private sector is key to the implementation of the Big Four. It is necessary to deepen the impact of the plan on economic growth, poverty reduction and opportunities for the youth. And what really drives economic growth — strategy or God’s grace? One of the striking notes in this week’s MPC press release is that the recovery of the agricultural sector this year was attributed to “improved weather conditions”. Even though banks failed to increase agricultural credit, output increased — essentially because there were more rains that were better distributed than last year. The import of this is that the performance of agriculture and food security is at the mercy of the weather, which raises questions about how much the massive government spending on big dams for irrigation is contributing to food security. There’s a critical need to bridge the gap between rain-fed and irrigation agriculture to achieve sustainable food security. SETTLE SCORES The same could be said of the significant increase in diaspora remittances, foreign exchange reserves and tourism numbers this year. In times of high political activity, foreign investors and tourists keep off, avoiding the risks of being caught up in political violence. When politicians finally settle their scores, they return. Essentially, the stimulus for foreign direct investment and tourist numbers is more of a gamble than strategic action. The challenge for the government is to build bridges to facilitate inflow of investors and tourists without risking their lives and investments. SOCIAL INTEGRATION The government and Kenyans should use the BBI to deepen social integration and invest in economic opportunities for improving their wealth and livelihoods. It’s time to build bridges between the rich and the poor, the employed and the jobless, the healthy and the sick, the employers and the workers and the leaders and the led. In a blog this week, International Monetary Fund staffers Tony Annette and Chris Lane cite high levels of employment, income equality and gender equity as key to social inclusion, durable economic growth and financial stability. These should be the key drivers and bridges of Kenya’s social and economic transformation. Mr Warutere is a director of Mashariki Communications Ltd. ptwarutere@gmail.com  