Their faces say it all: The pain of losing their pillar of life in a murder. For Chris Msando’s family, his death left an indelible pain in their hearts. Add that to unanswered questions surrounding the death of the electoral commission's ICT manager and all they feel is absolute injustice. On Friday, the family marked the first anniversary since Mr Msando was found murdered just a week to the August 8, 2017 elections. His body was found in a bush, alongside that of a woman. The killers are still at large. ELUSIVE JUSTICE For the family though, the agony of losing a dependable member coupled with the search for elusive justice has been exhausting. Yet their love for him has emboldened them. Yesterday, at their Lifunga home in Siaya, Msando's mother, 79-year-old Mary Aloo, recalled how her last-born called earlier the day he disappeared, never to return. “He called me and promised to come visit me at the hospital where I had been admitted in Nairobi,” she said. “I always yearn to know who killed my son and why. Even if he committed a crime, why was he not arrested and taken to court? He could have been in jail now, but alive,” she said as tears gushed from her eyes. FATHER'S DREAM Still overwhelmed by the pain of a mother losing her son, she says they will not surrender in their calls for justice. “It is unfortunate that despite the willingness of some foreign nations to help in the investigations, our government said it has machinery for the same, but no tangible information has been given yet,” she said.   At home, Msando’s widow Eva Buyu looked at her young ones and shed tears, but vowed: “I shall not fail. I will struggle to ensure these children live to fulfil their father’s dreams,” she said. At Lifunga shopping centre, villagers called for the truce between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga to be a stepping stone in the realisation of justice for Mr Msando’s family. STOP AT NOTHING During the service, Mr Msando’s sons Alvin and Allan were also given a chance to address the gathering. “Dear Mr President, we want to know the killers of our father, we want justice,” said the two boys. Electoral commission officials were conspicuously missing from the event attended by Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga and other county leaders. Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga, Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi and his Kisumu Central counterpart Fred Ouda attended the event. Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o’s wife, Dorothy Nyong’o, was also present. Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi said Siaya county leaders would stop at nothing to ensure those behind the murder of Mr Msando are brought to book. INVESTIGATIONS “In the spirit of handshake and building bridges between President Uhuru Kenyatta and People’s President Raila Odinga, there is the need to deal with historical injustices. The murder of Msando is one of those injustices,” said the MP. “Mr President, the killers of Msando are well known therefore do not waste time, arrest them immediately because they are well known to the system, they are the same people who killed Juma,” said the first time MP. But the deceased’s elder brother Peter Msando questioned if justice will finally be served to their son as the people who were at the top of the investigations have since been deployed to other duties.   A primary school girl and former landlord picked as prime suspects and later set free.