Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has given the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) one week to make public the findings of investigations into National Youth Service scam suspect Josephine Kabura's affidavit. The affidavit was sworn by Ms Kabura in 2016 linking Ms Waiguru, then Devolution Cabinet secretary, to the alleged loss of Sh791 million at the NYS. Governor Waiguru, through her lawyer Mansur Issa, has written to the anti-corruption agency to release the outcome of the investigations and forward the file to the Director of Public Prosecutions within seven days. "We look forward to receiving a copy of the report by early return and in any event within the next seven days," part of the letter dated August 23 and addressed to EACC chief executive officer Halakhe Waqo reads. RECORD STATEMENT Mr Issa wants the anti-graft agency to release the findings so that Governor Waiguru can be vindicated. He said that the Governor has written severally to the commission requesting for the information but the agency has not been forthcoming. The deputy director of Forensic Investigation, Mr John Lolkoi, said in May 30, 2016 that the agency was at an advanced stage of the investigations and Ms Waiguru would be notified of the findings once the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions gave directions. Lawyer Issa said that the Kirinyaga Governor had recorded a statement with the EACC regarding allegations filed by Ms Kabura before the High Court in 2016. "Regrettably, two and half years later the commission is yet to communicate to our client the outcome of the investigations, nor inform the members of the public on the veracity of the allegations made by Ms Kabura," the letter says. IPSOS POLLMr Issa said that Ms Kabura’s allegations informed the public perception that the governor is corrupt. An opinion poll released by Ipsos on Wednesday showed that about a third of its respondents viewed Ms Waiguru as one of the most corrupt of "all the current and past but still alive political leaders". "As a result of the inordinate delay, our client has continued to receive negative publicity stemming from the allegations in Ms Josephine Kabura’s affidavit, culminating in a sponsored and doctored survey released by IPSOS Synovate." On her Twitter handle, Ms Waiguru said: "This is my fifth letter in the last three years to EACC requesting them to make public the findings on the investigation of the Kabura affidavit."   Ipsos poll says Kenyans perceive the two leaders as the most corrupt among public officials.