Are you passionate about anything? Maybe you should be. Because being passionate’s the difference between being good and being great. Playing the piano and being a pianist. But how? Isn’t passion something you’re born with? Actually no. Start behaving like passionate people behave, and you’ll also become passionate. Because being passionate is not simply about trying to get ahead. Or just being better than everyone else. It’s about achieving the very best that you’re capable of. So for example, athletes who focus on perfecting their skills become way better athletes than those who only want to outdo their competitors. Your personal best is all about you and no one else. And you know what? It doesn’t matter what it is that you’re doing. If you focus on perfecting a skill, then that skill will become your passion. And that leads to success. So even if you’re a bad golfer, if you practise hard enough then you’ll start winning tournaments. And even the simplest business, run really passionately, will make loads of money. So what do passionate people do that’s different to everyone else? THEY NEVER STOP THINKING ABOUT IT They never stop thinking about what they do. Because it inspires them and makes them feel good. Your passion becomes who you are. Passionate people don’t waste time. So avoid doing things that don’t matter. Focus every minute on improving your skills, and soon there’ll be nothing else you’d rather be doing. Passionate people are always optimistic. So always be chasing your next goal, and always be certain that you’re going to achieve it. Passionate people get up early. They’re so eager to start their day that they can’t sleep in. Because their minds are full of ideas for the day ahead. They’re willing to take big risks. No one does that for something they’re only mildly interested in! Passionate people only have one speed. Full steam ahead. So don’t do anything half heartedly. Whatever you’re doing, really go at it. You’ll need to relax sometimes, of course. But when you’re relaxing, really relax. Nothing in between. Passionate people talk about their passion all the time. Because their passion is who they are. So you’ll know you’re becoming passionate about something when you find you can’t stop talking about it! Now you’ll find that you’re always excited. It’s not that you’re never quiet. It’s just that it takes less to get you excited, so you get excited more often and stay excited for longer. And because you focus all that excitement on just one thing, you make more progress. And your achievements build your excitement. You’ll also stop thinking about work and life balance. What you do is who you are, so there’s no separating the two. It’s what you live, eat and breathe, so there’s no such thing as leaving work at the office. Is that you? It can be, if you want. Start seriously working at being the best you can at what you do, and soon you’ll be passionate …    nyumbayangu@me.com   Listen far more than you speak, and avoid lecturing and nagging.