EUCALYPTUS EFFECT ON AVOCADO TREES I have plans to start avocado farm but I read somewhere about crops being affected by eucalyptus trees. My farm is surrounded by eucalyptus trees, so my question is, do I need to cut them down? And how long will it take for the eucalyptus allelopathic effect to fade away Philemon Kurgat Eucalyptus are allelopathic, which means that the trees produce poisonous substances that hinder the growth of other crops. Eucalyptus trees also drain a lot of water from the soil. Therefore, if you plant the avocado trees near the eucalyptus, the former will lack water. You don’t have to cut the eucalyptus unless you want to sell them. Just plant your avocado trees about 25m away from the eucalyptus. Carol Mutua, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University **** NAPIER GRASS SEEDSWhere can I get napier grass seeds? I am planning to plant more than an acre of this grass in Nakuru? Moses Kamau Napier grass is one of the most popular perennial fodder used by smallholder dairy farmers. The grass is more nutritious when cut young with dark green leaves and the common varieties include Kakamega 1, Kakamega 3, Kakamega 8, Machakos hairless, Uganda L14, Soghor Nandi L13, Kitui L7, ex-Mariakani, Bana, French Cameroon, Clone 13 and Pakistan hybrid. These varieties yield well depending largely on agro-ecological zone and management. Farmers can source planting materials and get guidance on suitable varieties and yields from institutions like Kalro (contact Katumani station on 0770177380) or seek guidance from the nearest Ministry of Agriculture offices. Felix Akatch Opinya, Department of Animal Science, Egerton University. **** EGERTON UNIVERSITY IMPROVED BEANS I want to know more about the beans which Egerton University is offering to farmers on contract basis. Daniel Kipng'etich, Eldoret We have three varieties of beans namely Chelalang for high altitude areas, Tasha for medium altitude and Ciankui for low altitude zones. All these varieties are high-yielding, are resistant to diseases, give no acid or gas and cook faster. And yes, we contract farmers. You can contact us through egertonseedunit@gmail.com Carol Mutua, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. **** I NEED TO VISIT A FARMER GROWING RUNNER BEANS I have been doing research on runner beans. However, I have not learnt much because I don’t seem to find farmers online from who I can learn from. Please share contacts of farmers growing runner beans so I can pay them a visit. Martin Maina, Gatanga Our writer Kihu Irimu once featured a farmer growing the crop in Kiambu. Talk to the farmer through him on 0724945952. Also, the best persons to learn from are exporters of runner beans for the various markets around the world. They would furnish you with the information that you require. These farmers or firms are headquartered in Nairobi. Muriuki Ruth Wangari, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. **** BLIGHT ATTACK IN PEPINO MELONS Kindly advise on how to treat my pepino melon which has been affected by early/late blight and flowers are falling off before they mature into fruits. Gathuri There are several fungicides that you can use for preventive and curative purposes. All chemicals that contain Mancozeb as one of the active ingredients are majorly used for prevention and they include Milthane super. While fungicides that have Metalaxy and Carbendazim are mainly for curative purposes, and they include Twigalaxy, Ridomil gold, Mistress, Rodazim and Victory. Flower shedding/abortion is mainly due to some form of stress such as fungal diseases, insect-pest or nutrient deficiency. I would recommend that at the budding stage or early flowering, apply fruit and flower foliar fertiliser mixed with an insecticide. Muriuki Ruth Wangari, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University.   Do you have any question or enquiries on agribusiness, marketing, logistics, processing, innovation, and technology? Please send your questions to: satnation@ke.nationmedia.com