Kajiado and Kiambu counties surpassed polio vaccination coverage targets in the first phase of the immunisation drive, the Ministry of Health has revealed. Whereas the target is 95 per cent, Kajiado reached 124 while Kiambu attained 119 per cent. This, the ministry of Health said, was achieved through various partner collaborations which created awareness among residents. However, Isiolo and Meru did not achieve the 95 per cent target. They attained 94 and 93 per cent respectively. The campaign was done in 12 high-risk counties, namely Wajir, Mandera, Garissa, Lamu, Tana River, Kitui, Meru, Isiolo, Kajiado, Machakos, Kiambu and Nairobi. Machakos was third with 111 per cent coverage followed by Wajir with 108, Lamu was fifth with 106 and Tana River achieving 101 per cent. The national vaccination coverage stood at 103 per cent. HURDLES Nairobi County was at seventh position with 100 per cent, then Kitui (99), Garissa (98), Mandera (97), Isiolo (94) while Meru was last with 93 per cent. Dr Daniel Lang'at from the Health ministry's Disease Surveillance and Response Unit said insecurity challenges in Isiolo and some resistance from a section of religious leaders in Meru County prevented them from attaining the required percentage. “When we started the polio campaign, there were security operations in Isiolo. "Communities were fighting and vaccinators had to run away while in Meru, parents were afraid of taking their children for vaccination because a section of religious leaders termed it as a bad move, hence the low percentage,” Dr Lang'at said. The campaign targeted 2.4 million children under five years but 2.5 million children were immunised (103 per cent). IMMUNITY According to Dr Lang’at, the campaign was in response to Polio Virus type 2 isolated from a sewage in Eastleigh, Kamukunji sub-county, in April. The sewage sample was collected in March and the results were linked to two viruses isolated in Somalia in October last year. The virus is capable of causing paralysis in unprotected/unvaccinated individuals. The report was shared with the Global Polio Advisory group which recommended three rounds (0,1,2) of polio vaccination campaigns to boost immunity among vulnerable children. Round 0 was conducted in Nairobi in May 2018 targeting 817,782 children — 94 per cent of the target was achieved. Round one was conducted in 12 high-risk counties, including Nairobi. It was conducted between July 11 and 15 and targeted over two million children. STRATEGY Round two, which will be officially launched today in Kitui County, will be repeated in the 12 counties and will be done between August 4 and 8. This phase will target 2.8 million children. “We are going to use a house-to-house strategy. A team of vaccinators and volunteers will be moving from house-to-house and will be giving two drops of oral polio vaccine to all children under five years. “Immunisation will also be done in health facilities and temporarily fixed posts — schools, churches and bus stops for transit children," Dr Langát said. He disputed allegations that the vaccine causes fever, urging parents not to fear since the vaccine is safe and has no effect on children. “The vaccine we are using is extremely safe; it acts in the intestines and does not get to the blood. It triggers the response within the gastrointestinal system,” he said.  