Taxpayers may be losing millions of shillings to a fraudulent scheme run by staff at the Milimani Law Courts registries, a fresh internal audit recommending action by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations shows. The audit ha established that staff at the registries pocketed at least Sh40 million in 2016 and 2017 in court fees through fraudulent activities such as use of fake receipt books, alteration of receipts and parallel receipts. This may be just a tip of the iceberg, as corruption by court orderlies is believed to be widespread across the country. At least Sh36 million was stolen using fake receipts alone, the assessment conducted by the Audit and Risk Management Directorate of the Judiciary established, pointing to weak controls in management of accountable documents. PUBLIC FUNDS The bulk of cash was lost at the Commercial and Tax Division registry where Sh26.07 million was pocketed using 371 fake receipts which were not recorded in the Counter Receipt Book Register — the Judiciary’s official record. The Environment and Land registry lost Sh7.57 million to the fake receipt racket while a further Sh498,635 went missing at the Civil Division. “The amount receipted using the fake receipts were not traced to the bank statement leading to loss of public funds. It was not immediately possible to determine the source of the fake receipts that were used to embezzle the public funds,” the auditors, led by the directorate’s acting head Ronald Wanyama, say in the report. PARALLEL “However, a keen observation of the records maintained in the accounts section at the Milimani Law Courts revealed that the handwriting in some of the fake receipts with collections totalling Sh1.7 million was similar to the handwriting of the staff who maintained the revenue cash book at the courts station.” The Judiciary lost a further Sh2.16 million to parallel receipts, which had identical serial numbers to the genuine, pointing to existence of a parallel receipt book. “Although only 30 parallel receipts came to the attention of the auditors during the review of case files, more parallel receipts might have been issued since a receipt book contains 50 receipts. Consequently, a huge amount of public funds might have been lost as a result of parallel receipts,” the audit states. REQUISITION The auditors blame lack of designated staff to request receipt books from the headquarters for existence of parallel receipts at Milimani, an anomaly the court’s management said has since been corrected through appointment of specific staff to collect the receipt books. The auditors fault the management of the Milimani Law Courts for not having designated staff to collect accountable documents such as receipt books on the court’s behalf. “As per the best practice, the management of the court station is responsible for instituting controls to ensure that specific staff are responsible for collecting and keeping accountable documents and that requisition and issuance … is documented,” the auditors say. ACCOUNTABLE This is against section 16.2 (d) of the Judiciary Finance Policy and procedures manual, which requires holders of accountable documents to track movement and usage of accountable documents. Other fraudulent activities where public funds were siphoned off include collection of cash which was not banked (Sh1.39 million) and alteration of receipt books (Sh463,000). The auditors have recommended that the chief registrar of the Judiciary, Ms Anne Amadi, reports the loss of revenue through fake and parallel receipts to the Directorate of Criminal Investigation (DCI) for further investigation, arrest and prosecution of the culprits.  