Kenya’s junior volleyball team on Sunday started their campaign in the U-20 Africa Cup of Nations Championship on a brilliant note by beating Tanzania 3-0 (25-15, 25-21, 25-11) at the Kasarani Indoor Arena. The Kenyan juniors led the match from start to finish, cruising to a 16-9 lead in the first set and allowing the neighbours only six more points as they neatly tied up that set with a 25-15 score. Tanzania offered some commendable pushback in the second set, and were trailing 8-6 and 16-13 at the first and second technical timeouts before ultimately succumbing to a narrow 25-21 loss. The hosts continued in their winning ways in the third set, leading 8-4 at the first technical timeout and never looking back on their way to a convincing 25-11 finish. Team captain Mercy Likhayo was breathless but elated after the match, saying that that was the good start that she and her fellow team mates had prayed for throughout the week.   “We didn’t want to lose this first match. We wanted to start building momentum from the first game and I am happy that has happened. Our focus turns to the next one against Nigeria which we must also win,” said the teenage volleyball sensation, who turns out for Lugulu Girls High School. Kenya were drawn in a relatively easy Pool A alongside Tanzania, Nigeria and Cameroon, thereby evading seven-time champions Egypt, who were cast in Pool B together with Uganda, Mauritius, Democratic Republic of Congo and Rwanda. They will face Nigeria in their next match scheduled for Wednesday afternoon. The drawing of lots took place on Saturday evening in the presence of CAVB president Amr Elwani and representatives from all the eight participating countries. In the first match of the day, Democratic Republic of Congo had cruised to a straight sets win over Mauritius after beating them 25-23, 25-18 and 25-23. This is the third time that Kenya is competing in the U-20 Africa Cup of Nations following their third place finish in both the 2008 and 2015 editions. MONDAY'S FIXTURES Nigeria v Cameroon (2pm) Congo v Egypt (4pm) Rwanda v Mauritius (6pm)  