Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned, so goes the saying. But what if said the scorn is non-existent in the first place? Melinda (played by Taraji, but whose younger versions are portrayed by Ajiona Alexus) meets Robert (played by Lyriq Bent and younger versions portrayed by Antonio Madison) on a rainy day somewhere around their campus. Robert is immediately blown away by Melinda’s beauty and starts pursuing her. However, Melinda does not see him through the same lenses. The plot thickens after Melinda’s mother passes away leaving her a tidy inheritance. Melinda’s sisters try to dissuade her from entertaining Robert whom they perceive to be only after her money seeing that he is from a background riddled with financial constraints. If you could make sense out of it then it wouldn’t be love anymore, would it? Melinda throws caution to the wind and falls head over heels for the guy. Unfortunately, their relationship suffers strife what with Robert’s cheating and Melinda's fits of insane rage that really test their limits. SEPARATION Despite the drama, they go ahead and get married after graduation. Things take a turn for the worse. Robert forfeits employment for a venture which he believes will make him millions. In the meantime, he remains unemployed as he pursues the delusional instant wealth. The meantime stretches out for a long while and at the expense of their relationship. The couple become distant and Melinda becomes resentful. Should a woman keep supporting her man even though she doesn’t see any light at the end of the tunnel? Or does she force him to shelf his dream because right now it seems like one of those pipe ones? When does she say “enough is enough” or “let’s just hold on a little longer”? The couple eventually parts ways and as luck could have had it, Robert’s fortunes turn in his favour. His venture materialises stringing along a new love in his life. SHORT-CHANGED Now Melinda feels short-changed after all the time and energy she put into the relationship when things were not going so well for Robert. She feels owed. How far will she go to get what’s “rightfully” hers? Watch the movie and find out. Tyler Perry movies have become more realistic with time. I would hate to be the person from whom he sources material or inspiration from, because that just seems like a lot of hurt and pain. Although the movies are edgier and rawer than the Christian-type films we were used to in the beginning, they continue to convey important lessons on how to live life, and live it right. In fact, this is the first Perry Film production that did not give me a ‘preachy’ vibe. The message was conveyed subtly and naturally. The movie has elicited mixed reactions online, people either siding with Melinda or Robert, which goes to show how open the movie was to interpretation. The acting was on point. The script was also well done; the plot unfolded gradually and the backstory was also good. The picture was on point, with the visuals and locations being well shot, framed and with just the right type of hue. One thing I found not sitting right with me was Melinda’s character towards the end when she became totally crazy and unreasonable. Also, why does the measure of success have to be in the hundreds of millions of dollars? To me, that is like stepping all over hard working folks who make a few thousand dollars (or shillings) and making them feel like that isn’t worthy of praise. On the technical side, there was a scene which is shot in the sea, at night, that would have used more polishing. That said, the movie is an enjoyable watch. Be warned though; it has racy scenes and very strong language used in it.   It doesn't have many unbelievable stunts but has heart-in-your-mouth moments, lots of suspense.