Kisumu County is urging government corporations with huge chunks of land along the shores of Lake Victoria to let investors use them as a launch pad for development. As a starting point, Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o said he has initiated talks with the Kenya Railways and Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) which own huge tracts of land to provide space for investors who want to set up multibillion shilling ventures. The county plans to set up floating restaurants and a boat assembly plant on the lake if plans take root. “We want to start using the idle land as we wait for them to be transferred to the counties,” said Prof Nyong’o’s economic adviser and head of Strategic Delivery Unit George Omondi. Prof Nyong’o has already set up a county working team to work on plans of opening up the maritime sector, which will be discussed with other government agencies and non-governmental players, including the civil societies and religious groups this week. “The team will produce the Kisumu County strategy paper on the blue economy and establish a linkage with the Lake Region Economic Bloc (LREB) which is a 14-member body,” he said. The fresh water lake is a shared resource by Kisumu, Siaya, Homa Bay, Migori and Busia counties who are members of LREB. Other members are Trans Nzoia, Bungoma, Kakamega, Vihiga, Kericho, Nandi, Bomet, Nyamira and Kisii. READ: Kisumu sees film production as viable investment magnet Apart from State corporations, the Kisumu County government is also in talks with the business community around the lake to relocate and give room for expansion plans aimed at utilising the blue economy sector. "Some of the places we target include businesses around Obote Road and Lwang'ni area which lie around Lake Victoria," said Mr Omondi. “We will not forcibly evict the tenants, but we are going to have a discussion to ensure that they also understand and see the need to embrace the transformation that will strategically make Kisumu the business hub of the region,” he said. Mr Omondi expressed optimism that modern boats and a ferry to link Kisumu with the neighbouring counties and both Tanzania and Uganda will drastically lower the cost of living and promote food security in the region. Kusa Beach Management Unit member Francis Awino said improvement of maritime transport will expand their market as fishermen can easily transport their catch to where the demand is high. “At the moment, movement from one end to the other is an expensive affair as we have to hire boats which are even more expensive,” said Mr Awino.  