A 27-year-old woman from Tetu, Nyeri County has been arrested following the death of her husband after he succumbed to stab injuries on Tuesday morning. The miraa trader identified as Francis Mwiti aged 34 succumbed to injuries at Nyeri County Referral Hospital. He was allegedly stabbed by his wife, Emily Mukiri, early Saturday following a domestic quarrel at their home in Muthinga, Tetu. Police records indicate that the man came home drunk at around 1am Saturday, sparking a violent confrontation with his wife. While the specifics of the confrontation still remain unclear, Ms Mukiri is said to have picked a kitchen knife and stabbed her husband multiple times in the abdomen and the face. Neighbours also claim that the couple have had a history of violent confrontations. BLEEDING Following the fight, Ms Mukiri reportedly left her husband bleeding and went drinking at the nearby shopping centre. Hours later, Mr Mwiti received a phone call from a police officer attached to Muthinga Police Station informing him that his wife had been arrested for disorderly conduct and that he should go bail her out. It was at that point that the man informed police that he had been assaulted by his wife at their home. Despite his severe injuries, Mr Mwiti dragged himself to the police post which is about 300 metres from his home to bail his wife out. RUSHED TO HOSPITAL Officers on duty noticed that he was bleeding and rushed him to Nyeri County Referral Hospital for emergency treatment. His wife was placed under arrest initially for assault and managed to post Sh5,000 police bail. Police Tuesday arrested the woman to face charges of murdering her husband after he succumbed to injuries while receiving treatment. Nyeri Central Divisional Police boss Muinde Kioko said that with the death of the man, the case had escalated to murder. “Once the file is ready she will go to court for murder. The husband she stabbed is now dead so she will answer for his killing,” he said. She is expected to appear in court Wednesday.  