Two police officers accused of murdering a Nairobi businesswoman and injuring her nephew have been released on a personal bond. In a ruling on Wednesday, Justice Stella Mutuku directed William Chirchir and Godfrey Kirui to deposit Sh700,000 cash bail each to secure their release. Judge Mutuku further gave the two officers an alternative of executing a personal bond of Sh2 million each with two sureties of Sh1 million each. She the prosecution had failed to give compelling reasons to deny the two bond. They are accused of killing businesswoman Janet Waiyaki and injuring her nephew Benard Chege at City Park, Nairobi, in May. WITNESSES According to the judge, Mr Chirchir - an Administration Police officer from Makadara police station - and Mr Kirui from Industrial Area police station have denied murdering Mrs Waiyaki on May 20. The prosecution had opposed their release, arguing that they are likely to interfere with witnesses. The prosecution added that they should only be freed after key witnesses have testified. Mr Chege, 26, said he is fearing for his life. And Mr George Kirubi, the late Waiyaki's husband, also claimed he has been threatened. Mr Kirubi alleged that someone shot at his house on June 17 and three days later he was run off Jogoo road by an unknown vehicle. THREATS He also said a mysterious fire broke out at his business premise at Gloria Hotel on June 23. The officers said the prosecution did not prove they made the threats, hence they should be granted bond. "I have considered the grounds in support of the application and those in opposition. I appreciate the apprehension of the prosecution that the accused persons may interfere with witnesses or abscond," she noted. However, Justice Mutuku added that an accused person has a right to be released on bail or bond on reasonable conditions, and if not there should be compelling reasons to keep one locked up. She then directed the file to be placed before Judge Jessie Lesiit on September 19 for the hearing date to be scheduled.   Bernard Chege, 26, says police are harassing him day and night.