The performances by universities at the Kenya National Music Festival on Saturday and Sunday showed that they have come of age. They showed remarkable improvement in the quality and level of performances, which led to stiff competition. This is unlike half a decade ago, when they seemed to perform just to be seen to have participated. Among the universities that impressed the audience at the Dedan Kimathi University auditorium were KCA University, Mt Kenya and Gretsa. RENOWNED GREATS KCA university also thrilled the audience with Luo sacred folk song, Gur Mar Yesu, which spoke of the suffering Jesus Christ endured and his crucifixion to save mankind. Other universities that participated were Dedan Kimathi, Kenyatta, Moi, Masinde Muliro, Maasai Mara and Nairobi. Teacher training colleges (TTCs) from the Mount Kenya Region outshone their colleagues in the African traditional group dance with dances from the Kikuyu, Embu and Meru categories. Thogoto, Meru, St Mark Kigari and Aberdares teachers training colleges dominated these categories. But that was to be expected, since the students usually choose dances that are popular locally. IMPRESSIVE RENDITION The TTCs also presented gave impressive renditions of golden oldies by renowned greats like Daudi Kabaka and Fadhili William, among others. The class attracted a high number of entries, including Kenya Technical Training College, Narok, Asumbi, Kibabii, Igoji and Kigari TTCs. Primary schools ended their performances on Saturday with lively African folk tunes, paving the way for secondary schools and colleges, which took the stage from yesterday, until the festival ends on Wednesday. Popular gospel, cultural and instrumental classes will be staged today. The music festival is a good place to spend time and learn about Kenyan and African music, dances, instruments and costumes, said the festival's National Chairman, Mr Peter Wanjohi. STATE LODGE The finalists concert, featuring the winners in all categories, will be held on Thursday. Education CS Amina Mohamed and Deputy President William Ruto are expected to attend. On Friday, the winners will be hosted by President Uhuru Kenyatta at the State Lodge in Sagana Mr Wanjohi urged Kenyans to turn up in large numbers for the finalists' concert. The festival, which features participants from primary schools, colleges and universities, is billed the largest music extravaganza in East and Central Africa.   It has been billed as the largest art festival in East and Central Africa. It will end on August 18.