Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) has said it will reach out to Migori Governor Okoth Obado to persuade him to change his stance on his erstwhile rival Ochillo Ayacko’s nomination for the Migori senatorial seat. The party’s decision to hand Mr Ayacko a direct ticket last week faces resistance from key politicians and candidates, with former Rongo MP Dalmas Otieno and Mr Obado openly opposing the move. Mr Ayacko’s nomination gives him a head start in the senate race since ODM enjoys a huge following in Nyanza region. The Migori governor’s opposition has stirred anger from a section of ODM members, who have accused him of rebelling against the party’s choice. But Mr Obado terms the party’s decision, undemocratic and dictatorial. On the other hand, Mr Otieno has since decamped from ODM and will contest for the vacant senate seat on a National Liberal Party ticket. However ODM deputy leader Wycliffe Oparanya, who is also the Kakamega County governor, has defended the party’s choice, saying it was made in the best interest of Migori residents. 'SPLIT PARTY' Despite defending ODM's choice, Mr Oparanya said they "understand how volatile Migori County is" and fear "the step could split the party" as it has in the past during primaries, a mistake they do want to repeat. Mr Oparanya was speaking in Kisumu during a fundraiser at St Paul’s ACK Church in Ratta, Seme Sub-county. But his defence of the party's choice was shared by Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o, Woman Representative Rozah Buyu and her Homa Bay counterpart Gladys Wanga. “We understand his concerns, but we will approach my friend Obado and convince him to change his stand on opposing the party’s choice,” said Mr Oparanya. Mr Oparanya said Obado’s claim that a direct nomination is undemocratic is untrue since the party’s constitution allows it. “We did not have time to carry out nominations,” said Mr Oparanya. The Kakamega governor urged those who are opposing Mr Ayacko’s nomination to wait until 2022. Prof Nyong’o said the move ODM took was not strange since it is practiced worldwide by various parties, even in the developed countries. Seven candidates are set to battle it out for the Migori senate seat that fell vacant following the death of Ben Oluoch Okello on June 19, this year. The candidates are: Mr Ochilo Ayako of ODM, former Rongo MP Dalmas Otieno, former Migori MP John Pesa, Migori Kuppet executive secretary Orwa Jasolo, former Migori Kuppet chairperson Kennedy Makasembo, Mr George Maando and Mr Solomon Hodo.   Obado urged residents to ignore the party’s choice and support a candidate of their choice.