Athletics Kenya will hold a track and field meeting in honour of the late 2015 world 400 metres hurdles champion Nicholas Bett who was buried Thursday at his Simat home in Uasin Gishu County. Deputy President William Ruto joined mourners at the athlete’s final send-off and also announced the government would set aside 100 slots for athletes at the next recruitment of the National Police Service. Police Inspector General Joseph Boinnet confirmed that the service would recruit one officer from the late athlete’s family in his honour with Uasin Gishu Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno promising that a high altitude athletics camp under construction in the county be named after the former world champion.     The goodies offered at the athlete’s burial demonstrated the respect the 28-year-old police corporal commanded after clinching Kenya’s first ever sprints gold medal at the World Championships when he won the 400 metres hurdles in Beijing in 2015. Ruto also gave Bett’s family Sh4 million, half of which was from proceeds of his police insurance scheme and the rest of the amount a contribution from Ruto and President Uhuru Kenyatta. Bett, who was attached to the traffic department of the Kondele Police Station in Kisumu County, was buried in full police tradition, including a 21-gun salute.   He died last week in a road accident along the Cengalo-Lessos-Kapsabet road and was eulogised as a trailblazer in his sprints and hurdles speciality. Ruto, who passed condolences from President Kenyatta, said the government would support the athlete’s family through the disciplined forces insurance. “We are mourning a hero who made the country proud and we are going to start a kitty for the children. Two million from the disciplined forces insurance will be availed while I have brought two million in cash from the president and myself,” said Ruto. He further said there are plans to include the athletes in the medical cover just like the discipline forces. Boinett said that they would recruit one person from the family as one way of honouring the departed athlete. “Bett was a hardworking servant and at the same time an international athlete and we are going to reward the family by employing one of them,” said Boinett. Maximilla Imali, a Kenya international sprinter and member of the police athletics team, addressed the congregation on behalf of the Kenyan team that competed at the 21st Africa Athletics Championships in Nigeria early this month, saying she received the news of his death with shock. “We were with Bett in Nigeria and we went through a lot with the disorganisation that was witnessed during the Africa Championships,” said the athlete. Bett was struggling with a hamstring injury and according to Imali, they would encourage him that he would heal with time. “He has gone through a lot concerning the hamstring injury he had and as he was now coming back, his life was cut short. It’s so sad and we will always remember his good deeds,” said Imali. Multiple world and Olympics champion Ezekiel Kemboi conveyed the message from the athletes’ commission of the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) while Africa javelin champion Julius Yego said Bett had asked Athletics Kenya to open a sprints camp to improve performances in the short races.   “While we were in Nigeria, Bett met with the AK officials and asked them to start a training camp for the sprints athletes so that they could perform better in future competitions. He never lived to see the camp,” said Yego. Bett’s South Africa-based coach Irma Reyneke, said she was happy when the late decided to go to South Africa for endurance training. “Bett came to South Africa for training and he really wanted to get back to his form. He was looking for time to qualify for the Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast,” said Irma. Other athletes who turned up to pay their last respects to the fallen hero included London Marathon champion Vivian Cheruiyot and Olympic marathon champion Eliud Kipchoge. Former National Olympics Committee of Kenya (Noc-K) President Kipchoge Keino said he would cater for the education expenses for his children until secondary school. The athletics family was led by the Athletics Kenya President Jack Tuwei, chief executive officer Susan Kamau, branch chairmen Barnabas Korir (Nairobi) and Abraham Mutai (central Rift) among others. Tuwei said that they will hold the first AK track and field meeting at Eldoret’s Kipchoge Keino Stadium in honour of the late sprinter should the renovation works at the stadium be complete in time. Joseph Kiget, the chairman of the National Police Service athletics department, said death had robbed the country a hard working servant and athlete. Other top officials in the burial included the cabinet secretaries Rashid Echesa (Sports), Farida Karoney (Lands), Sports Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia and the Kapseret Member of Parliament Oscar Sudi. IAAF President Sebastian Coe also sent his condolences through AK president Tuwei. Other international federations that sent their condolences included Athletics South Africa, Uganda Athletics Federation and the Burkina Faso Athletics Federation. He is survived by his wife, Gladys Bett, and two children, Nicole Chepkoech (8) and Nerius Chepchirchir (3).   Ruto is expected to lead other top government officials in the ceremony.