Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has called for a meeting with ward representatives as battle for control of Coast votes heightens. The meeting comes after Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi met 21 MPs last Saturday. Mr Kingi and Mr Joho, who are serving their final terms as governors, are eyeing the presidency in 2022 and have been working to consolidate the 1.7 million Coast votes. While Mr Joho wants to vie for the top seat on an ODM ticket, Mr Kingi has announced he will form his own party and has shown interest in working with Deputy President William Ruto. A supremacy battle is in the offing between the two who have been close allies, but are now pulling in different directions for the control of the six Coast counties and who should be the region's political spokesman. Until the March 9 handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition leader Raila Odinga, the two were the region's key pointmen. CONSOLIDATE BASE Mr Joho plans to meet at least 150 ward representatives from the region to consolidate his base. READ: Kingi: Coast will chart own political path According to a text message sent to the MCAs and shared on their WhatsApp group by county assembly chief whip Charles Kitula, Mr Joho is set to meet them on Friday. “Dear Hon, this is to inform that H.E Governor Hassan Joho will meet all the Coast MCAs this Friday. Time and venue shall be communicated later. Kindly note this in your diary,” reads the text seen by the Nation. An MCA, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Mr Joho is keen on using them to penetrate the six Coast counties as most of the MPs were now coalescing around Mr Ruto. “I've been forced to cut my trip short after being informed about the meeting, but we know the boss (Mr Joho) has seen that the MPs have taken a parallel system of operation by aligning themselves to his opponents and now he wants to ensure he has the support of the MCAs,” said the ward rep. MAINTAINS SUPPORT MCAs from Kilifi, Kwale, Tana River, Taita-Taveta and Lamu counties also confirmed to have been invited for the meeting. Mr Joho's move is seen as a strategy to ensure he builds and maintains support as he heads for the presidency. Mr Kingi’s support has been seen to be leaning towards the DP and he has repeatedly insisted that the region must unite for it to have a say in the national politics. The Kilifi governor has also been at the forefront in defending rebel MPs some of whom have been attacking Mr Joho. DEVASTATING POLITICAL EFFECT Among the MPs who are fighting Mr Joho's bid are Mr Suleiman Dori (Msambweni) and Ms Aisha Jumwa (Malindi). On Saturday, Mr Kingi warned ODM of a “serious devastating political effect at the Coast", if ODM punishes the two vocal MPs. Political observers have, however stated that the governor is seeking to have the unity of the region so as to have bargaining power ahead of 2022. His move, however differs with that of Mr Joho who has embraced President Uhuru Kenyatta.   Magarini MP Michael Kingi denied endorsing Mr Ruto.