Deputy President William Ruto and ODM party leader Raila Odinga on Friday clashed over the winner of last year’s presidential election and the March 9 peace deal. The two leaders, attending the funeral of one time Cabinet Minister Henry Obwocha, publicly faced off at Sironga-Ekerubo grounds in West Mugirango, Nyamira County, over the outcome of the August 8 election, with Mr Odinga suggesting that his victory was stolen while Mr Ruto maintaining that Jubilee won fair and square. Mr Odinga and Mr Ruto earlier shook hands and exchanged pleasantries and apologies for trading insults during last year’s elections. However, minutes later, they rekindled their increasingly bitter political rivalry as mourners watched. The Nasa leader, who spoke before Mr Ruto at the ceremony, revisited the polls saying that Chief Justice David Maraga had vindicated the opposition by nullifying the elections. "People were so disappointed after the elections and we went before Chief Justice Maraga (Supreme Court) and you all know what happened," Mr Odinga started. POLL VIOLENCE Mr Maraga, who had spoken earlier, had called on politicians to emulate the late Obwocha’s style of politics. “I am not a politician but I am urging politicians to embrace Obwocha’s style of peaceful politics,” Mr Justice Maraga said. And speaking as Mr Ruto watched pensively, Mr Odinga said that in past elections people were killed, maimed and others burnt in churches. He added that he had since March agreed to work with President Uhuru Kenyatta for the sake of peace and development in the country. When it was his turn to address mourners, Mr Ruto told Mr Odinga to accept defeat and restated that Jubilee won the August 8 polls. “Asiyekubali kushindwa sio mshindani (He who is unwilling to accept defeat is not a competitor),” the DP said. "I want to appeal to our brothers; you said mambo yabadilika (things change) and we said tuko pamoja (we are together) and now here we are mambo yalibadilika na sasa tuko pamoja (things changed and now we are together)," Mr Ruto said. BUILDING BRIDGES Mr Odinga had earlier likened his January 30 'oath' and President Kenyatta's swearing in ceremony on November 28, 2017 to the biblical narrative where two women claimed the same baby. "In that scenario, one mother agreed that the baby be divided into two but one refused and agreed to let him go. "That's exactly what I and President Kenyatta did when we came together and put up the building bridges team to bring all Kenyans together, fight corruption and impunity and foster development," he said. In his speech, Mr Ruto cautioned the Opposition against focusing on positions and party affairs at the expense of the people. “The public wants development; they want electricity, roads, schools and hospitals and it is high time we as leaders focused on that,” he said. Mr Odinga said leaders must come together and fight corruption without favouring any individual. "There should be no brotherhood in the fight against corruption," Mr Odinga said. LIFESTYLE AUDIT He said his building bridges initiative with President Kenyatta will address corruption and past injustices, noting corruption was the country’s worst enemy. “We said we were leading Kenyans to Canaan. Unfortunately, on our arrival at River Jordan, our journey was interrupted by a snake. We are therefore building the bridges to use on our way to Canaan,” Mr Odinga said amid laughter from the mourners. In the past, both Mr Odinga and Mr Ruto have criticised each other. Mr Odinga has previously challenged Mr Ruto to reveal where he gets the money he donates in church harambees. Similarly, Mr Ruto has been making political forays in areas perceived to be Mr Odinga’s strongholds, particularly at the Coast. Mr Ruto is widely expected to vie for the presidency in 2022. PEACE AND UNITY However, his ambitions have become increasingly complicated since Mr Kenyatta and Mr Odinga buried their hatchet during the March handshake, which also isolated some of the political leaders close to Mr Odinga. Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula — one Mr Odinga’s ally-turned-foe and who has been rallying his lieutenants against the Nasa leader, on Friday steered clear of politics and instead eulogised the late minister — who died at 69 — as a “voice of reason and balance”. Kisii Senator Sam Ongeri and Homa Bay Woman Rep Gladys Wanga called on Kenyans to embrace the spirit of the handshake and work together. Prof Ongeri said the handshake between the two leaders had sent a strong message to Kenyans. The late Obwocha was buried at Igenaitambe village home, Bosamaro in Chache, West Mugirango. He leaves behind a widow, Dolline Mokeira, two sons and two daughters. Mr Ruto conveyed President Kenyatta’s condolences while Mr Odinga brought condolences from his Nasa co-principal Musalia Mudavadi. On the other hand, Mr Wetang’ula conveyed condolence message from Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka.   Conflicting positions taken by President and former Premier on the referendum cause unease in their camps.