Kenyan movie “18 Hours”, a film inspired by a true event, leads the local with five nominations in this year’s Africa Magic Viewer’s Choice Awards (AMVCAs), becoming the first Kenyan production to ever do so. The film, which follows a rookie paramedic who spends 18 hours in an ambulance to save the life of an accident casualty, was nominated for “Best Movie in East Africa”, “Best Overall Movie” (Phoebe Ruguru), “Best Writer” for Kevin Njue, “Best Sound Track” (Jacktone Okore), and “Best Picture” (Mark Maina). The picture will battle with other greats from across the continent as the winners are announced on Saturday. Movers and shakers in the continent’s fledgling film industry will converge at the Eko and Suites Hotel, Victoria Island in Lagos, Nigeria, for the biggest night of African productions. Kenya’s chances also hang on Nice Wanjeri, who stars as Shiro in the popular comedy “Auntie Boss” (Best Actress in series/comedy), Denis Maina Wanjohi for his documentary “The Flesh Business” (Best Documentary), Sarika Hemi Lakhani for her movie “Supa Modo” (Best Indigenous Language movie or TV series) and Victor Gatonye’s K.E.R.U. in the same. STIFF COMPETITION The Kenyans will be facing stiff competition from their counterparts from West Africa, which always dominate the award shows. Speaking to ActScene Ms Njeri said she was overcome with emotions when she found out she had been nominated for AMVCAs. “I cried because this is a big deal for me. I never thought I would have been nominated for the best actress in series/comedy, not just in Kenya but across Africa, alongside big Nollywood names like Rita Dominic and Adesua Etomi, who I used to watch when I was in high school. Win or not, it is an honour.” The AMVCA is the biggest celebration of film and television talent across Africa since the first edition which was held in 2013. This year, the show promises to be even bigger, with top contenders vying for honours in a number of voting and non-voting categories. In 2014, “Nairobi Half Life” bagged four of the five awards Kenya had received. The movie saw Mohammed Zain win the best lighting director award, Barbara Minishi win as the best art director, Christian Almesberger scoop the best cinematographer award and Elayne Okaya win the best make-up artist award. Kenya had more than 15 nominations then. Viewers should expect an evening of fun, excitement and stellar performances from artists from Africa. The AMVCAs will be broadcast across the continent on DSTV and GOtv starting with Red Carpet.  