As former world 400 metres hurdles champion Nicholas Bett is buried Thursday, one Amos Rono will live to remember the athlete for the rest of his life. Born in Simat area in Uasin Gishu County, Bett and his brother Aaron Koech were pupils at Simat Primary School where they were taught by Rono, who later introduced the twins into athletics. Also a neighbour in Simat, Rono started nurturing the two brothers who had started showing talent in sports. "I knew the two boys — the late Bett and his brother Koech — since their childhood, and I started nurturing them from the word go when I saw their potential in sports," said Rono on Tuesday as he joined mourners in preparing for the final rites for the departed Bett who died in a road accident last week. Rono says the two athletes who would play volleyball and the same time showed interest in athletics. He recalls that Bett started participating in the 110m hurdles and represented his school to national level. "He started with the 110m hurdles where he used to perform well and at one time he did well all the way to the national levels. He was a strong athlete and at one time he even participated in the Decathlon events and that shows how strong the athlete was," added Rono. SHONE ALL THE WAY Bett later joined Paul Boit High School where he would play volleyball together with his brother before transferring to Cheptil High School in Nandi County where their sporting talents were sharpened. "I followed their progress when they were in high school. With his brother Aaron, they represented the school well in the volleyball and athletics where they shone all the way to the national level," he said. After high school, the two brothers were recruited by the National Police Service where Bett was deployed in Kondele Police Station while Aaron was posted at Nakuru’s Anti-Stock Theft Unit (ASTU). Rono says that the community has lost a good upcoming athlete who had started doing well and many youths were looking up to him. "His win in 2015 at the Beijing World Championships inspired many youths and these days you will find young boys creating home-made hurdles saying they want to be like Nicholas Bett in future," said Rono. "Bett was a man loved by all and he will always be remembered for the good heart he had to the community and athletics family." When Kenya wrapped up the 21st African Athletics Championships in Asaba, Nigeria, in style by winning the 4x400m relay, Bett provided the motivation to the Kenyan quartet of his brother Aaron, Jared Momanyi, Alphas Kisioyan and Emmanuel Korir. “My brother came into our room, which I was sharing with Julius Yego, and told me to help the team deliver a gold medal. “He really wanted to see us perform well in the last event during the championships in Assaba,” recalls Aaron.   Bett will be buried at his Simat home in Uasin Gishu County in full police tradition.