Leaders Gor Mahia on Friday bounced back to winning ways with a hard-fought 2-1 win over Posta Rangers in the SportPesa Premier League at Moi Stadium in Kisumu. Jacques Tuyisenge and Francis Kahata scored a goal each to help K'Ogalo recover from their shock 2-1 loss to Bandari at Mbaraki Sports Club in Mombasa on Tuesday which brought to a halt their 22-match unbeaten streak in the league this term. Cavin Odongo struck Rangers' goal to set a nervy end to the encounter. The 16-time Kenyan champions now top the standing on 59 points, 14 ahead of second-placed Bandari who dislodged Sofapaka the second spot following their win over Gor Mahia. Meanwhile, the loss leaves Poster Rangers 10th on 31 points. Gor Mahia's head coach Dylan Kerr said the win was encouraging to his exhausted players. "This was a wonderful game because the boys displayed quality football, it was very competitive and more of a battle because our opponents also played well," said Kerr. His counterpart Sammy Omollo blamed his side's loss to poor goal keeping. "This is the best game we have played against Gor Mahia but goalkeeper's mistake from the set pieces cost us the match," said Omollo, a former Kenyan international. Still writhing from their first loss this year and looking to avoid a similar predicament, Gor came off the blocks fast. George 'Blackberry' Odhiambo's brilliant run on the left flank was cut out by Collins Omondi early on before Tuyisenge had the ball at the back of the net on sevens minutes but was rightly flagged offside. The Rwandan striker Gor ahead five minutes later after Rangers players failed to clear Kahata's delivery from a corner-kick. The centre referee was then forced to caution Rangers defender Simon Mbugua for a cynical foul foul on George Odhiambo, who had left him for dead. Odhiambo's shot from the resultant free-kick failed to hit the target. With Gor attacking, Posta coach Omollo made a first half substitution with Peter Ochieng rested for Paul Odhiambo. Luis Tera's close range attempt for the Postmen on 22 minutes went straight into the hands of Boniface Oluoch before Joseph Nyaga's effort on 34 minutes was also saved by the goalkeeper. Gearson Likono thought he had levelled matters two minutes after the breather, but even after beating Oluoch in Gor's goal, his effort was cleared off the line by Philemon Otieno. The champions made their first substitution on 51 minutes with coach Kerr resting Tuyisenge, who was limping, for midfielder Lawrence Juma. Kahata then doubled Gor's advantage four minutes later with a stunning free-kick after being fouled on the left wing, in what was a disappointment to Rangers who had looked the better side in the early minutes of second half. Gor made their second change in the 67th minute with Cercidy Okeyo coming in for Francis Mustafa as injured Oluoch was also replaced by Shaban Odhoji six minutes later. Odongo netted Rangers goal with nine minutes to time, after reacting fast to bury a rebound from Likono's powerful shot that had hit the cross-bar.   Muyoti will lead his charges for the first time in their visit of Zoo Kericho.