Harambee Stars coach Sebastien Migne has named a squad of 38 players ahead of their 2019 Africa Cup of Nations Group “F” qualifier against Ghana. The match is scheduled for September 8 at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani. Kenya will be seeking their first victory in the campaign after a 2-1 loss away to Sierra Leone in the first round clash in June last year. In Migne's squad are 19 home-based players and a similar number of foreign-based players led by Captain Victor Wanyama. China-based Ayub Timbe will not be part of the squad. Timbe was slapped with a two-match suspension by the Confederation of African Football after the Sierra Leone match. South Africa-based defender Brian Mandela, who will not play after picking a red card in Sierra Leone fixture, has however, been invited for assessment by the French tactician. GIVEN A NODStrikers Masud Juma, who recently parted ways with South African side Cape Town City and Michael Olunga, who moved to Japanese side Kashiwa Reysol last week, are among those in the squad. Youthful duo of left back Erick “Marcelo” Ouma and winger Ovella Ochieng’, barely three weeks old at Swedish division two side Vasalund, have also been given a nod by Migne after an impressive show in the Hero Intercontinental Cup in India where Kenya finished runners up in June. Locally, Bandari custodian Farouk Shikalo, who has kept the most clean-sheets (16) in the Kenyan Premier League (KPL) has been recalled. The local players are set to join the camp on September 2 before being joined by foreign-based players a day later. Ghana, who thrashed Ethiopia 5-0, top the group on three points, similar to Sierra Leone. Kenya is third without a point while Ethiopia, who host Sierra Leone on September 9 sit at the bottom. Kenya visits Ethiopia in the third match in October. FULL SQUADForeign based playersDavid Owino, Jesse Were, Anthony Akumu (Zesco United, Zambia), David Ochieng’ and Eric Johanna (IF Brommapojkarna, Sweden), Erick “Marcelo” Ouma and Ovella Ochieng (Vasalund, Sweden), Johanna Omollo and Abud Omar (Cercle Brugge, Sweden), Ian Otieno (Red Arrows, Zambia), Ismael Gonzalez (CF Fuenlabrada, Spain), Clifton Miheso (Buildcon, Zambia), Musa Mohammed (Nkana, Zambia), Joseph Okumu (AFC Ann Arbor, USA), McDonald Mariga (Real Oviedo, Spain), Michael Olunga (Kashiwa Reysol, Japan), Paul Were (FC Kaisar, Kazakhstan), Brian Mandela (Maritzburg United, South Africa) Victor Wanyama (Tottenham Hotspurs, England). Home-based playersGoalkeepers: Patrick Matasi (Tusker), Boniface Oluoch (Gor Mahia), Brian Bwire (Kariobangi Sharks), Farouk Shikalo (Bandari) Defenders: Philemon Otieno, Joash Onyango (Gor Mahia), Dennis Odhiambo (Sofapaka), Jockins Atudo (Posta Rangers), Benard Ochieng’ (Vihiga United) Midfielders: Whyvonne Isuza, Duncan Otieno (AFC Leopards), Francis Kahata, George Odhiambo, Samuel Onyango (Gor Mahia) Strikers: Cliff Nyakeya (Mathare United), Abdallah Hassan (Bandari), Piston Mutamba (Sofapaka), Allan Wanga (Kakamega Homeboyz), Masud Juma.  