The poor, defenseless, resigned Winfred Mwende who was filmed receiving a beastly beating from her husband David Nzomo will receive government support to earn an income, the Gender ministry said on Wednesday. Gender Affairs Cabinet Secretary Margaret Kobia said Ms Mwende, who is recovering at the Makueni Level Four Referral Hospital where she was rushed after being rescued by her in-laws, will be enrolled in a government financial programme. “We will link the survivor with the socio-economic empowerment programme in my ministry will ensure that she is economically empowered,” said Prof Kobia in a statement to newsrooms yesterday, where she noted that she was “deeply saddened” by the assault. Ms Mwende, whose tiny frame made many who watched the viral video suspect she is a minor, is in fact a mother of three aged 35. HERDING FAMILY CATTLE The incident happened in Makueni County and according to Prof Kobia, Ms Mwende’s main occupation is herding family cattle. “The husband, one David Nzomo, accused her of unfaithfulness after she received some phone calls and started to beat her,” stated Prof Kobia. “I congratulate the in-laws for rescuing Ms Mwende and taking her to hospital. The matter was also reported at Makueni Divisional Police headquarters,” added the minister. Prof Kobia has also ordered that officers in her ministry investigates the matter in conjunction with the police. This adds pressure on the police to arrest Mr Nzomo, who is said to be at large, after the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) on Tuesday also directed the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to arrest him and have him charged. RAINING BLOWS “The DPP further directed that those who watched and participated in the unacceptable brutality, be arrested too,” said a tweet from the DPP. The Federation of Women Lawyers has also called on Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinett and the office of the DPP to act “with immediate effect”. Prof Kobia said the efforts to trace Mr Nzomo are being coordinated by the police, Makueni Woman Rep Rose Museo, officers from the Gender Affairs department, county officers among others. “We anticipate that he will soon be arrested. We shall do everything possible within our means to ensure that the perpetrator is prosecuted within the law,” stated Prof Kobia. The 58-second-long armature video that emerged online earlier this week has drawn outrage from far and wide. It captured Mr Nzomo raining blows, kicks and slaps on the helpless woman as a small crowd pleads with him in Kikamba to rethink his punishment.  