Teachers have recorded another big win after their employer agreed to look at the policy on performance appraisal. Teachers Service Commission Chief Executive Nancy Macharia on Thursday assured the employees that their concerns will be addressed. RESULTS She instructed Dr Reuben Nthamburi, the director in charge of quality assurance and standards, to urgently convene a meeting with Kenya Primary Schools Headteachers Association (Kepsha) and Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association (Kessha) to address any emerging issues on the policy. "This should be done within the next two weeks," Dr Macharia said during Kepsha conference in Mombasa. This means the commission may review the policy but will not scrap it as demanded by the Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut). The CEO noted that the policy has had a positive impact on school management and curriculum delivery. Heads of institutions, she said, have reported that appraisals have enabled them focus more on prudent and judicious application of financial and human resources. She said headteachers had also reported that supervision of teachers has become easier, cases of teacher absenteeism have drastically fallen and teachers now prepare schemes of work, lesson plans and keep vital learner progress records. STRIKE "That notwithstanding, there have been some few emerging issues," Dr Macharia said. "We have listened to you and are aware there are areas you want addressed in order to strengthen Performance Contracting and TPAD." Some teachers have called for the abolishment of the policy, terming it "dehumanising and enslaving". On Wednesday, TSC chairperson Lydia Nzomo said the policy is “compulsory”. TSC says the policy seeks to regulate, improve, set standards for schools across the country. Knut had threatened a strike from September 1 if the employer does not abolish the policy and delocalisation of head teachers. President Kenyatta has since ordered a review of the policy on transfer and posting of heads away from their home counties.   He underscored the role the sector plays in actualising the 'Big Four' development agenda.