Rift Valley MPs have promised a tough battle to protect Deputy President William Ruto’s interests in the Jubilee Party in the wake of claims of indifferent treatment by President Uhuru Kenyatta following his handshake with opposition chief Raila Odinga and the Mau eviction saga. The leaders, speaking under the aegis of Rift Valley Parliamentary Caucus, have been holding a series of meetings to consolidate the DP’s support ahead of the 2022 elections. Those who spoke to the Nation said the meetings would continue, saying it was not the first time they were holding them. They said the focus was on how to make the DP’s candidature stronger and appealing to the majority of Kenyans. BIG FOUR AGENDA They also said they used the meetings to agree on ways to promote the Big Four agenda which, they argue, will be a spring-board for the DP’s 2022 presidential bid. Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei, a close ally of the DP, on Wednesday acknowledged that, as leaders from the region, they have been holding meetings to promote the region’s development agenda as part of a strategy to boost Mr Ruto’s political support. “We usually discuss many issues regarding the region and the Big Four agenda and not personalities,” said Mr Cherargei even as he remained non-committal over reports of a planned meeting of Rift Valley leaders at the DP’s Sugoi home in Uasin County to deliberate on the 2022 succession strategy. DEVELOPMENT AGENDA “The push for the development agenda for the region we represent will remain our top priority. The Jubilee Party remains united and the DP should count on our support,” added the outspoken senator. He said that they were in full support of the government’s fight against corruption but said that this should not be used as a political tool ahead of 2022. “We are in full support of the President’s lifestyle audit and the fight against corruption but it should be in good faith and not targeting any individual,” Mr Cherargei told the Nation on the phone. Cherangany MP Joshua Kutuny had hinted of a retreat for Rift Valley leaders to consolidate the region’s unity in the wake of reports of a scheme within Jubilee to block Mr Ruto from succeeding President Kenyatta. The meeting, according to Mr Kutuny, is to ensure that cracks do not emerge among Jubilee leadership in the Rift Valley, perceived as the DP’s political stronghold.   ODM leader leaves Kenyans guessing on his 2022 ambitions.