The recent investigative report by Parliament that has been described as shoddy and the vote to turn a blind eye to alleged irregular sugar imports was unfortunate but predictable. As other commentators have stated, this will simply give more leverage to sugar import cartels. More importantly, it will kill the little that was left of the local sugar industry. Time and again, Parliament and other government agencies have inadvertently, sometimes even deliberately, killed local industries by the policies that they allow. It started in the 1980s, when Kenya liberalised its economy, allowing all manner imports. This led to the collapse of the cotton, leather and sisal industries because, as young industries, they could not compete in the global market. Since 2008, a year after the inception of Vision 2030’s industrialising policy, the manufacturing sector has stagnated at 0.8 per cent while imports have increased, resulting in a negative trade balance. TRADE BALANCE A negative trade balance is experienced when the amount and value of imports is much more than exports. To mitigate this problem for the developing economies, tariffs are necessary. A tariff is a tax imposed on imported goods with the aim of generating government revenues and protecting the domestic market. However, the World Bank promotes the neo-liberal economic theory that advocates free trade without protectionism. But while it is true that free trade can promote growth, it only benefits countries that have high technological products that are globally competitive. For developing economies, free trade actually hurts them. STATE-LED POLICIES The evidence from the rich industrialised countries shows that their economic transformation was initially not through free trade but State-led policies that regulated imports while promoting locally manufactured products for export. In his book, Bad Samaritans: The Myth of Free Trade and the Secret History of Capitalism, Ha-Joon Chang, an economics professor and former World Bank employee, argues that most countries — such as the Asian Tigers and, more recently, China — have industrialised through State-guided policies that identified local manufacturers, provided credit, nurtured and protected them through tariffs and subsidies until the industries could compete globally. The so-called miracle of the Asian Tigers’ industrialisation that occurred within a generation was, in fact, a well-designed State-led strategy. South Korea, for example, had a strict policy against importation of luxury goods. The government only allowed machinery and raw materials essential for manufacturing, to give their products time to mature and be able to compete in the global market. PROTECTIONIST POLICIES Another example is the Japanese Toyota car, which was protected for 30 years. Britain and the United States, some of the earlier industrialists, used protectionist policies for over 100 years. In fact, the American War of Independence was, essentially, in revolt against British products being imported into the US. Small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and even large government enterprises such as the National Youth service (NYS), if well-managed, can spur industrialisation. However, they need government intervention through policies that promote locally manufactured products while protecting them during their infancy until they are globally competitive. During this infant stage, the government is supposed to promote local consumption of their products, even if they are of lower quality, as no country has ever fully industrialised through consumption of imported goods. OPEN MARKETS Of course, applying protectionist policies goes against fair trade policies instituted by the World Trade Organisation (WTO). However, how fair is global trade when WTO rules favour free trade where rich countries are stronger, such as in high technological products, but not where they are weak, such as agricultural products? Free trade demands that poor countries open their markets to competition in areas that they are weak in and they will surely be wiped out due to lower quality and higher production costs. If Kenya is serious about industrialising, it must take radical steps and develop economic policies that are in its interest and use its bigger market to negotiate better in the global trade to grow its manufacturing sector and create the much-needed jobs. Ms Gachire is a lecturer at the Kenya School of Government. betty.gachire@ksg.ac.ke  