Kenbharti Centre’s Annual fun fiesta to mark the Indian Independence Day last weekend at the Oshwal Centre Auditorium coincided with its praiseworthy initiative to honour women, who have excelled in selfless service to the society in the fields of social welfare, education and culture or philanthropy. The celebration was graced by Her Excellency the High Commissioner of India to Kenya, Madam Suchitra Durai. Well-known Kenyan dignitaries and a clap happy, emotionally charged and patriotic audience also attended. The talented groups of Kenyan Indian dancers, in rich traditional and modern attire, performed items with creative patriotic themes to the delight and appreciation of all those present. The Lifeters Group of Langata led by Mehul Varsani was judged as the winner of the Dance Competition. It was closely followed by the Maharashtra Mandal and Khalaya and the Dancetastics. As the dance groups competed for honours, Kenbharti rather innovatively went ahead to award the seven Kenyan women who have excelled in various fields of service to the community and the Kenyan society at large. The selection of the awardees was made earlier by a distinguished penal of judges. The dignitaries present facilitated honours and awarded the Achievers’ trophies to Suhasini Desai, Namrata Shah, Dr Prabha Choksey, Priya Bhudabatti, Dr. Jyoti Trivedi, Sonal Meherali and Madhvi Dalal. EMOTIONAL MOMENT A very emotional moment was the facilitation of the Lifetime Achievement Award to Usha Shah by the High Commissioner. Ushaben deserved the prestigious Kenbharti Trophy and her rather emotional thanksgiving speech brought tears to the eyes of the audience. The celebration and the Awards ceremony dubbed MAA TUJHE SALAAM 7 (salutations mother) was sponsored and supported by respected social and culture conscious business houses and social and welfare groups. The dance performers also reaped generous monetary gifts donated by the sponsors. Kenbharti was generous to serve a sumptuous Bharti vegetarian supper to all those who attended to support this exta-ordinary cultural and social activity. Kenbharti Chairman Abhijeet Gupta and his group of culturally awake and youthful Kenyan patriots who have over the years excelled in organising musical and dance celebrations should also be applauded. The Centre showcases a true Kenyan spirit of transcending ethnic, racial, cultural and religious borders to entertain and serve. Its commitment to encourage young artistic Kenyan performers and recognising their achievements is praiseworthy. Jai Ho!   It's an initiative of Kenbharti Centre Kenya and appropriately dubbed MAA TUJHE SALAAM 7.