Kenya has an international obligation to protect the Mau forest complex because it is a source of livelihood for millions of people beyond the country’s borders. In 2010, Kenya signed an accord meant to manage the resources of River Nile. The Nile gets its water from Lake Victoria which, in turn, is fed by rivers from the Mau complex. The Nile serves South Sudan, Sudan and Egypt. The Cooperative Framework Agreement (CFA) was signed by former Water Minister Charity Ngilu following negotiations which lasted more than 10 years. “The Maasai Mau and the Mau Complex are not just a Kenyan affair. It is a water catchment area and provides water for other countries. It is an asset that is transnational in character and nature,” said Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko during an interview. LOSING LAND But as the government recognises the treaty, residents of Sierra Leone, one of the most degraded areas in the Maasai Mau, say their only concern is the risk of losing their land. “If this is where Egypt’s water comes from, let them pay us; we have the title deeds. We are not leaving. All we want is our rights to be respected,” said Mr Josephat Lang’at, a resident. The Mau Complex also feeds Lake Natron in Tanzania through Ewaso Ng’iro. Lake Victoria is shared by Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania. “Interfering with the source of such crucial rivers would impact on Kenya’s obligations on regional and international treaties and conventions,” said Mr Tobiko. “Kenya takes very seriously its regional and international obligations under the international law. This is not about Narok County or the neighbouring counties, it is about Kenya and the region. Most importantly, it is about generations yet to be born,” said the CS. WATER SOURCES According to Mr ole Karia, a Maasai elder and a conservationist, if the Mau Complex dries up, it will go with all the ecosystems that depend on it, including the Nile. Narok North MP Moitalel ole Kenta said the Mau must be conserved for the benefit of the majority. “When people talk about human rights, you wonder what they mean. Just a few people destroying the human rights of millions of people. At the end of the day, we cannot justify that mistake,” he said. The Nile Basin is depended on by over 160 million people and thus destruction of the water sources feeding it will adversely affect them. The CFA has a long history. Egypt and Great Britain (on behalf of her colonies in the Nile Basin) signed an agreement on the utilisation of the Nile’s waters in 1929. There was another agreement in 1959 between Egypt and Sudan. RESOLVE CRISIS But Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda and Ethiopia maintained that they were not party to both treaties and so in 1999, the Nile Basin Initiative (NBI) was born in a bid to resolve the crisis. It was at this point that the countries involved — Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, South Sudan, Sudan, Tanzania, and Uganda — began developing a legal framework to govern the Nile Basin, which led to the 2010 CFA to which Kenya is a signatory. Over the years, there had been disagreements on the use of the water especially because of bulging populations in the states sharing the Nile Basin, according to a writeup — Limits of the New Nile Agreement. According to Mr Tobiko, while the fight for the Mau Complex may be seen to benefit the current generation, the impact of its continued destruction will be felt 50 years from today if nothing is done urgently. GENERATIONS “This is not a simple matter about now and today. The private rights of individuals must be balanced against the rights of the public and the generations yet to be born. It is now or never,” he said. Kenya and Tanzania share the Mara River, famous for the wildebeest migration. “The source of the rivers that feed into the Mara River and that go into Tanzania is Mau. And that is why there can never be a Maasai Mara without the river. It cannot survive as a national heritage and the same applies to all the ecosystems supported by the river, including Serengeti,” said Mr Tobiko. And so the government is not going to back down on the evictions in the Maasai Mau, said the Cabinet Secretary.   It is a web of collusion, blackmail and betrayal of the buyers of the land by influential individuals.