Burundi and Southern Sudan will be notable absentees at this year’s East African Secondary School Games that will be held in Musanze, Rwanda from next week. According to the draws conducted in Kampala on Thursday by Federation of East Africa Secondary Schools Sports Associations official George Omondi, only Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania and Rwanda have confirmed they will send teams for this year’s games from August 12 to 18. Tanzania are set to send a full delegation for the first time in three years. Tanzania only had a few teams participating in the regional event in the previous three editions due to what their officials said was luck of funds. Kenya’s football champions Kakamega High School have been drawn in a tough Group A which also has defending champions St Mary’s Kitende from Uganda, Buddo Senior School from Uganda, last year’s losing finalists Lecee de Kigali (LDK) from Rwanda and Alliance Secondary of Tanzania. Pool B of the football draw has B.S Kimanya from Uganda, CIP Mshanga from Rwanda, Olbolsat from Kenya, Nyerere Memorial of Tanzania and College Karambi from Rwanda. Also placed in the pool of death are Kenya girls’ basketball champions Kaya Tiwi Secondary from Coast who will be battling defending champions Buddo Senior School from Uganda, LDK from Rwanda and Luyanzi College from Uganda. At stake at this championship for the Kenya teams will be a chance to participate at this year’s World School Championship to be staged in Brazil later in the year after the country officially became a member early this year. KSSSA secretary general David Ngugi said the Kenyan schools will meet in Busia on Tuesday, where they will pitch camp for two days, for co-ordination purposes before departing for Rwanda on August 9 by road, through Uganda. EASS GAMES DRAWS Football boys Pool A Buddo SS (Uganda), Kakamega High (Kenya), Alliance (Tanzania), St. Mary’s Kitende (Uganda), LDK (Rwanda) Pool B B.S Kimanya (Uganda), CIP Mshanga (Rwanda), Olbolsat (Kenya), Nyerere Memorial (Tanzania), College Karambi (Rwanda) Football girls Pool A Kwale (Kenya), Makongo (Tanzania), St. Noa (Uganda) , GS Nyange (Rwanda) Pool B GS Ramera (Rwanda), Mukono High (Uganda), AB Njenga (Kenya), Alliance (Tanzania) Basketball boys Pool A APE Rugunga (Rwanda), Sigalame ( Kenya), Sseta Main (Uganda), Lord Baden Powell (Tanzania), Buddo SS (Uganda) Pool B Kibuli SS (Uganda), LDK (Rwanda), Laiser Hill (Kenya), Galanos (Tanzania) College Marie (Rwanda) Basketball girls Pool A St. Mary’s Kitende (Uganda), Butere Girls (Kenya), St. Bernadette ( Rwanda), Kizuka (Tanzania), Adegi (Rwanda) Pool B Kaya Tiwi (Kenya), LDK (Rwanda), Buddo SS (Uganda), Luyanzi College (Uganda) Volleyball boys Pool A St. Joseph (Rwanda), Buremba SS (Uganda), Kapkenyeloi (Kenya), Wagwa (Uganda), College Christ- Roi ( Rwanda) Pool B Mbogo Mixed (Uganda), 2. Don Bosco (Rwanda), Makongo (Tanzania), PSVF Karubanda (Rwanda), Malava (Kenya) Netball Pool A St Mary’s Kitende (Uganda), GS Gachihi (Rwanda), Luyenzi College (Uganda), Nyakach (Kenya) Pool B Kaya Tiwi (Kenya), St Noah (Uganda), St Alloy’s (Rwanda), Buddo (Uganda), Makongo (Tanzania)   The victory saw the Green Commandos win a record 13th title.