Kenyans may not have seen the last of the controversial report on contaminated sugar, that was rejected last week by the National Assembly amid reports of bribery. The claims have angered many since Thursday when the vote on the report was taken. Ten lawmakers have written to National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi asking him to invoke the necessary rules and give MPs another opportunity to have a bite on the cherry. Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi, Mr Peter Kaluma (Homa Bay), Mr Didmus Barasa (Kimilili), Mr Tindi Mwale (Butere) Mr Mohamed Ali (Nyali) Mr Babu Owino (Embakasi East), Mr Innocent Momanyi (Bobasi) and Mr Anthony Oluoch (Mathare) confirmed separately they had written to the Speaker to have the matter reopened. “The public is yet to see the last of this matter,” Mr Kaluma told the Nation on Tuesday. POURED MONEY “Cartels who poured money here to defeat the report must start squeaking in their boots. They must get another tranche of money to dish out … We should strengthen the report through mechanisms provided in the standing orders.” While the Thursday vote means the motion can only return to the House after six months, standing order 49(2) gives lawmakers the avenue through which they can review a decision of the House as soon as possible but only with the permission of the Speaker. READ: Sugar scam: MPs turn heat on Mbadi Mr Muturi is in Botswana for a Commonwealth Parliamentary Association meeting. “I have been in Parliament for six years and can tell when decisions we make as a House have been influenced by external forces. The Thursday debate had the characteristics of that,” Mr Kaluma said. Mr Barasa said the debate would assuage fears of millions of farmers who feel cheated by the vote. SERVE KENYANS “Our interest is to serve Kenyans. All is not well and the only way we can reassure the public is a new debate,” Mr Barasa said. While the MP agreed that the recommendations made might have weaknesses, Mr Barasa insisted that its general provisions are sound. "The materials and other testimonials attached to the report could help the House to get answers on the question of sugar safety," he said. Opposition leaders Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka and Musalia Mudavadi have also raised their voice after it emerged that some MPs were given as little as Sh10,000 to shoot the report down. ODM MPs are furious with Minority Leader John Mbadi "for failing to provide leadership". CORRUPTION Kieni MP Kanini Kega, who co-chaired the committee that drafted the report, blamed Majority Leader Aden Duale for rallying MPs to reject it. Meanwhile, the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Powers and Privileges called to investigate corruption among MPs failed to take off yesterday. National Assembly clerk Michael Sialai said it has been postponed to a later date. Mr Sialai wrote to the committee members informing them of the development. The revelations of the postponement were made by Mr Barasa. Additional reporting by David Mwere   Legislators ask Speaker Justin Muturi to ensure bribery allegations among MPs are investigated.