Have you ever thought about your blood circulatory system? How it moves blood from your heart, to your organs and body tissues and back to the heart? Have you ever thought of the life-giving substances it carries to keep you alive, or what would happen if your arteries collapsed? Mark Angelo, a Canadian river conservationist, said the following: “Rivers are the arteries of our planet; they are lifelines in the truest sense.” And Kenya’s arteries are on the verge of collapse. RESERVOIRS Living things require water to survive. Historically, people used animals to find areas with water. To be near it, they settled along the water source using it for their various needs and even though everyone needed water, not everyone could live near the water source. To solve this problem, people began to dig wells. As people settled further and further away from the water sources, aqueducts to move water and reservoirs to store it became the next great invention, beginning with the ancient Romans. Today, we get water from various sources, thanks to modern water systems. FISHING Geography teaches us river systems are an important water source that have many benefits: They provide habitats for aquatic plants and animals; are a rich source of food and minerals; and are used in transportation. Their natural and man-made features make them great tourist attractions, and the water rivers carry is used for agricultural, household and industrial use. Geography also teaches us what happens when we don’t manage our rivers properly. Let’s use a few rivers as examples. The Mara, Sagana, Thegu and Ewaso Ng’iro River waters, much like our arteries, replenished the areas they passed through, becoming a source of life. The Nairobi River was once used for swimming and fishing. ABSTRACTION These waters are not only a shadow of their former selves but are also lighting and kindling fires; the very thing that water should extinguish. These rivers together with others from mountainous regions are drying up due to excessive abstraction propelled by greed, poor regulations, the destruction of the forests, and politics. Here in the country’s capital, the Nairobi River has become a hotbed of pollution, with its waters turning from blue to brown or red depending on the type of waste injected into it. This poses a grave dangers to not only the communities, flora and fauna along it but also to those that are far away. Data shows more than 17 million Kenyans, almost half of the country’s population, use unimproved water sources like rivers. The cause of such mismanagement of rivers as water sources are many but they all have a common denominator: Man. IMPLICATED But, all hope is not lost. The government can reverse this situation with a few drastic interventions: by having one institution take charge of river protection instead of the six that are currently there. Should there be a problem, it will be easy to know who’s responsible, eliminating the blame game. The ongoing audits on river abstractions, and destruction of buildings on riparian land should continue, and restoration of these areas start immediately. Although very costly and painful, the cost of these actions will pale significantly compared to the cost of not doing so ten or twenty years from now. In line with this, people implicated in issuing riparian land and abstraction permits must be brought to book. POLITICISATION The government should also educate and empower the community to participate in river protection. This is especially important because communities are assets in environmental management. It will also reduce the politicisation of water and its management. The government must also take deliberate steps in conservation of water towers through tree growing and reduce river pollution. No forest, no rivers, no life! Finally, sound rules and regulations must be developed and implemented. No matter what drives water mismanagement, the result is usually the same: there isn’t enough water to go around. At the end of it all, we are responsible for the state of our arteries. Action must to be taken fast. Otherwise sooner rather than later, we will have no blue economy to talk about. Ms Wanjohi is the founder, Mazingira Safi Initiative. puritywanjohi@msi.or.ke  