The governor of Nakuru County Lee Kinyanjui has suspended the minister in charge of Sports, Youth and Gender Halima Gababa for 60 days. Mr Kinyanjui said she was suspended for “gross misconduct,” in a statement. The move by Mr Kinyanjui comes after angry youths petitioned the Assembly to investigate the conduct of Ms Gababa. Mr Kinyanjui said Dr Peter Kiplangat Ketyenya who is in charge of Trade and Tourism will be the acting Sport and Youth minister. PROBE “Ms Halima Gababa has been suspended for a period of 60 days pending investigations over gross misconduct,” said Mr Kinyanjui. A youth lobby, led by their spokespersons Daniel Kimani and Abdi Ismail, had accused the executive of gross misconduct. “The executive has violated the law, and has failed to diligently execute the functions and exercise authority of her office as demanded by the law,” said a petition signed by six other youths. The news of the suspension was greeted with jubilation by the youths who called on Mr Kinyanjui to appoint a new minister who has the interest of the youths at heart. “We’re happy governor Kinyanjui has finally listened to the cries of the youths. We’re now urging him not to repeat a similar blunder and nominate a youth friendly person in that position,” said Mr Kimani The youths said that Ms Gababa had ignored one of their own when he visited her office to inquire on a forthcoming volleyball tournament. “On two occasions two youths John Kiritu and James Wagakabu have literally been chased from her office and branded handout seekers when they demanded to be furnished with information regarding sporting activities in the region,” said the petition in part. The petitioners demanded an audit to be conducted to establish how the money meant for the development of sports has been utilised so far. They raised a concern that youths in the region were not given at least 30 per cent of the tenders as the law. “The executive has denied the youths tenders meant for them in her docket and that is why we are appealing for the assembly to investigate her conduct,” read the petition. Meanwhile, Mr Kinyanjui has nominated Dr Zakayo Gichuki Kariuki for the position of the Minister of Health and Mr Francis Mwangi Njuguna for the position of the Minister of Lands, Housing and Physical Planning. Dr Kariuki is currently the acting Director of Health at Nyandarua County while Mr Mwangi is a lawyer at the Ikua  Mwangi and Company Advocates Law firm in Nakuru town. Mr Mwangi is a former President of Rift Valley Law Society of Kenya (LSK).  