Police have extended to beyond Eldoret and Webuye the search for suspected gangsters who shot and killed Lukuyani MP Enock Kibunguchy’s driver. The hooded gang felled the driver in a night attack on Sunday as the legislator prepared to leave Highyway Motel at Soy market in Kakamega. 3 BULLETS Then they vanished not to be seen again. Detectives have told the Nation that they suspected the killer gang was also linked to recent robberies committed in the two towns and are working with their counterparts to arrest them. Kakamega County Criminal Investigation Officer John Onyango said a magazine, three live bullets and a spent cartridge were found at the scene. “Our investigations have indicated that the gangsters have committed robberies in Langas estate in Eldoret and Webuye town and were pursuing crucial lead that could lead to their arrest,” said Mr Onyango. The recovered ammunition has been sent to ballistic experts for examination. He said the gangsters could have gone into hiding in Eldoret and Webuye to avoid arrest. “We are carrying on with investigations and have managed to piece together crucial information to help track down the criminals,” said the Mr Onyango. He spoke after Mr Kibunguchy and six other people recorded statements in the ongoing investigations into the attack that the MP claimed targeted him. VANDALISM The MP drove to the DCI offices Lugari, Kakamega, on Tuesday afternoon and recorded his statement a day after he blamed his political opponents for planning the attack. The gangsters ransacked the MP’s vehicle for money and valuables, vandalising seats. Police recovered the MPs’ documents, which had been thrown away into a nearby maize farm. The detectives believe the gangsters were trailing the MP and his team before they struck at the motel. They confronted the MP’s driver, Mr Douglas Wakachi, and shot him dead after he resisted to hand over car keys. The Ford-Kenya lawmaker on Monday said he was the target of the attack. “The hitmen who were hired by my opponents whom I floored in the last General Election were after me,” the MP claimed without naming the suspects. “It is by the grace of the Lord that I survived the assignation attempt. They were targeting me.”   Kibunguchy claims his political rivals are after him because he has blocked plot to grab forest.