The International Association of Athletics Federation (IAAF) finally delivered its verdict on suspended Athletics Kenya (AK) officials David Okeyo and Joseph Kinyua. Okeyo, the former AK vice president, was found guilty of appropriating Sh120 million forwarded to the federation’s account by their sponsor, Nike, besides receiving bribes. He has now been handed a life ban from athletics and a fine of Sh15 million. Moreover, he was found to have gone against IAAF Code of Ethics on many occasions. And the federation is not through with him yet. He is bound to suffer more sanctions over accusations he solicited bribes, which charge has not been adjudicated upon. CODE OF ETHICS Even though Kinyua was found to have engaged in similar conduct, the IAAF Board acquitted him stating he was not covered under the 2003 Code of Ethics that prosecuted Okeyo. Charges against the former AK President, Isaiah Kiplagat, were dropped after he passed away in August 2016 while the case against former AK CEO Isaac Mwangi is still on. Mwangi is alleged to have solicited bribes from athletes, who tested positive for banned substances, with a view of clearing or reducing their penalties. The ruling following the investigations by Sharad Rao has simply exposed the financial improprieties that have been happening at Riadha House, the Athletics Kenya headquarters. The fact that some of officials were not bound by IAAF Code of Ethics does not really exonerate them. AK executive with the assistance of IAAF should conduct further investigations to get to the bottom of the rot in athletics management. SCHEMING OFFICIALS We can only trust in the current office if the corrupt are swept out of the sport management. AK can’t afford to sweep this issue under the carpet. Athletes must be protected from the greedy and scheming officials. It is sad that some AK officials resorted to diverting federation funds for personal gain unabated when they are supposed to be developing the sport. It’s that kind of behaviour that encourage athletes to seek shortcuts throw cheating. The IAAF ruling should be a wake-up call to AK — it must put its house in order and seal loopholes that allow pilferage and corrupt deals.  