Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed has directed schools to strictly comply with the existing regulations on transportation of learners in the wake of the bus crash in Mwingi that claimed the lives of 10 pupils. In a statement, Ms Mohamed warned that firm action will be taken against managers whose schools operate outside of the regulations. According to the Traffic (Amendment) Act, 2017, school busses are not supposed to be on the road before 5am and not past 10pm. The Mwingi tragic road crash involved pupils of St Gabriel Academy in Kitui County. On Sunday the ministry dispatched a team of quality assurance and standards officers, led by the regional coordinator of education, to the area to conduct investigations and file a report by Monday. REPORT “In line with the directive, the team turned in a preliminary report on the events prior to, and after, the grisly bus accident on Saturday 4 night. The report covered the events of the accident until 7am on Monday 6,” said the CS. She went on, “The major findings of the investigating team are; the school, run by the Kitui Catholic Diocese, was cleared by the Sub-County Director of Education, Mwingi Central, to ferry 92 pupils for a tour to Mombasa between August 1 and 4.” Ms Mohamed added that two buses, one belonging to St Gabriel Academy and another belonging to Nguutani Secondary School were used for the trip. ROAD CRASH “Seven teachers, two board of management members and the school matron were also on the trip. On the way back from the trip, the Nguutani Secondary School bus was involved in a road accident at 10.16pm at Kanging’a bridge, about one kilometre from Mwingi town,” said the CS. She added that the bus collided with a lorry before veering off the road. “By the time of the accident, the bus had 47 pupils on board, three teachers and a matron,” explained the CS. Eight pupils died on the spot, two died on the way to hospital, two were admitted to Nairobi Hospital while another two were admitted to Kenyatta National Hospital. “By the time of the accident, the bus had 40 pupils, having dropped off seven before the tragedy. The Ministry is working closely with relevant government agencies to trace the exact cause of the accident before submitting a final report to the Ministry for further action,” said Ms Mohamed.   Pupils had travelled more than 600km and were just 3km away from their destination when crash occured.