A manager with the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has been seconded to head the Office of the Registrar of Political Parties (ORPP). Ms Ann Njeri Nderitu was, until her secondment to head ORPP in acting capacity, the commission’s manager in charge of electoral training. She takes over from long-serving head Lucy Ndung’u who moved to the Commission on Administrative Justice (Ombudsman) as a commissioner. IEBC has also redeployed Ms Poloshe Naisiae Tobiko to manage commission services. Ms Tobiko was previously the IEBC manager in charge of field services. EIGHT YEARS Ms Tobiko switched positions with Mr Hassan Abdalla, who is now the manager, field services, at IEBC. With the exit of Ms Nderitu, the commission has deployed Ms Nancy Ilongo to replace her as manager in charge of electoral training. Acting IEBC CEO Hussein Marjan informed staff of the changes through a memo dated August 14, 2018. Ms Ndung’u headed ORPP for more than eight years in acting capacity. CRITICAL FUNCTIONS The staff movements have come at a time IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati has promised to conduct public vetting of all senior staff of the commission. “In order to enhance the commission’s effectiveness, accountability and restore public confidence, the commission has identified a need to undertake public vetting of all staff manning critical functions. Stakeholders will be accorded an opportunity to raise any concerns about our staff within a defined structure. The exercise will meaningfully address any integrity concerns posed,” Mr Chebukati said in a paid advert published in the print media on Friday. SUPPLY CHAIN Mr Chrispin Owiye was appointed acting director legal while Mr Mohamed Osman Hassan became the new head of human resource directorate, also in acting capacity. Ms Agatha Wahome is currently the head of finance directorate. Others affected by the movements were Mr Bernard Nyachio, who will head the directorate of supply chain, Ms Irene Mutai was re-designated as manager human resource development and her previous position as human resource manager has been taken by Mr Joseph Ayatta. The Office of the Registrar of Political Parties, where Ms Nderitu has been seconded, is the most interesting as it has not had a substantive head.  