The holidays are upon us yet again. Well, to be fair, we are already halfway through. It may seem hard to find activities to keep your child well occupied, but here are some activities that may help build their interaction abilities and talent. These activities are especially useful because they guarantee that both you and your child will be entertained. They also ensure that you do not splurge on expensive outings. a) Cook. You can either choose to look up tutorials from YouTube for new recipes, or decide to pass on a cooking lesson to your young one. The Couture Cooking Club also has cooking classes that will be running till August 23 at Osnet Gardens, Muthangari Drive in Lavington from 9 to 5 pm. Charges are Sh1000 per child. b) Art Class. Hope Church Lavington will be having classes dubbed Archie’s Oasis Art Class from August 11 to 31 . Charges are Sh1000 per class and Sh3500 for four classes. c) Watch something. This does not necessarily mean having to go to the cinemas. Pick a time, make popcorn, sit with your child and enjoy a movie of your choice. Alternatively, make a plan to attend The Grand Great Lakes Orchestra Launch, which is a partnership between Ignite Afrika and Ghetto Classics. Ghetto Classics is a flagship programme of the Art of Music Foundation that uses music education to provide over 300 children in Korogocho, and over 600 more from other satellite areas, with opportunities to better themselves and their community. It will be held at the Aga Khan Hall in Kisumu on August 24 for Sh500 per head. d)Into science? The Little Einsteins EA STEM Holiday Camp is ongoing on 891 Amboseli Road in Lavington till August 25. The daily rates for members is Sh1200 while for non-members is Sh1400. Weekly rates for members is Sh6000 and Sh 7000 for non-members. e) Pick a sport.The Impala Club along Ngong Road is hosting the Fit Haven Africa’s Juniors Holiday Basketball Camp until August 24. Charges are Sh3000 weekly and Sh11000 for twelve sessions. f) Creative work. Smart Maker is a teen affair that involves innovative design and harnessing creativity in project making. It runs until August 24 at the Discovery Centre off Mombasa Road. Charges are Sh4500. g) Travel. Take a mini road trip to somewhere new. Road trips do not have to be long distances. Visiting a town near you that you have never been to can go a long way.    