IN MUSANZE, RWANDA Kenyan sides St Anthony’s Kitale and Trans Nzoia Mixed remain favourites to win the 2018 Brookside East Africa Secondary School games boys’ and girls’ hockey titles. Five-time East Africa champions St Anthony’s, who are seeking to reclaim the title they last won in 2015 in Huye, Rwanda, lead the boys’ round-robin competition with six points from two matches. They are level on six points with Musingu, who they beat 2-1 in their opening clash. Musingu will have to win their remaining matches and hope that St Anthony’s drop points for a chance to win their maiden East African title. Next up is Upper Hill, who are tied on three points with Uganda’s Sir Samuel Baker and Kakungulu Memorial from one victory each, while winless Ntare of Uganda are bottom. Trans Nzoia Mixed top the girls’ standings with seven points but face stiff competition from Uganda’s Kakungulu Memorial, who also have seven points. Tigoi are battling with Old Kampala in the bronze medal spot with five points, while Bwenyarange have four points. Four-time East Africa champions Kerugoya had their hopes of a fifth title crushed after only managing two points from three games. In handball, Kenya is guaranteed a place in the girls’ final. National champions Moi Girls Kamusinga face Sega Girls in all-Kenyan semi as Kibuli face Mbogo in an all-Ugandan affair on Thursday. In Friday’s boys’ matches, newcomers Kanyawanga High from Kenya face champions ES Kigoma of Rwanda as Rwandese sides Adegi and College Gisenyi face-off in the other tie. Former East Africa boys’ basketball champions Laiser Hill have a deciding contest with homeboys Lycee De Kigali in their last Group B match. The Kenyan boys must win Thursday’s clash to book a place in the semis after losing their second pool match 69-47 to another Rwandese side Ste Marie Reine on Wednesday. Laiser Hill, who last won the regional title in 2012 in Bujumbura, Burundi, paid the price of surrendering a 17-12 first quarter lead as Reine capitalised on home support to win.   The clashes guarantee a Kenya versus Rwanda final yet again.