Mr John Lokomer, 70, does not have a national identity card. And it is not for lack of trying. The resident of Illeret town in Marsabit County is one of the many people in the region who do not have the crucial document. As a result, they are locked out of school, jobs, banking, telecommunication, and even key government services like the welfare programme for the elderly. Strict vetting, the long distances they have to travel to get the document and complacence on the part of the registrar make it difficult for the local people to get the crucial document. In fact, in the last General Election, only 800 people turned out to vote for the ward rep because the rest did not have IDs. The Registrar of Person’s office is in North Horr town, over 300 kilometres from Illeret. There are no regular public service vehicles and due to the bad roads, the journey can take up to six hours “We are treated like foreigners. I even travelled 300 kilometres to get the document but their application forms had run out,” says Mr Lokomer. NOMADIC LIFESTYLE The situation is complicated by the Dassanech's nomadic lifestyle. “They keep coming here to take our photos while others take our details but we end up waiting for years. Since most of us are pastoralists, we are always on move, searching for pasture so when they come back, they might also not find us here,” he adds. READ: Coast Somalis decry hurdles in getting IDs READ: GARISSA: Residents demonstrate over failure to get IDs Less than a kilometre away, we meet James Moroto. He completed secondary school in 2015 and has been applying for an ID since but still does not have one. He had to forfeit a scholarship because he did not have an ID. “I have missed several opportunities just because I don't have an identity card, which the government should provide,” he says, flashing two waiting cards. CASH-TRANSFER PROGRAMME Illeret Ward MCA James Korie Haile, who got only 800 votes in the last election, says: “There are almost three times that number of eligible voters but they do not have IDs.” He says it is frustrating getting help for his people, adding that the elderly cannot benefit from government-sponsored projects like the cash-transfer programme. “The elderly from my ward seem to be lesser Kenyans, young people cannot access higher education programmes, and the worst of all is that most people cannot enjoy their democratic right to vote,” he says. He adds that, since they are a minority in the county, he acts as the overall leader of the area since they are at the mercy of other communities. “I am the President, I am the MCA, I am the MP, I am the Woman Rep but here on the ground I can’t do anything because there are MPs from rival communities," he says. Meanwhile North Horr OCPD Joel Chebii, a member of identity card vetting committee, maintains that registration of persons in Illeret has been consistent, and that those complaining are isolated cases. But he adds that since the area chief, who helps in the vetting, has retired, the residents will have to wait for some time. “Once they get a new chief, he will help us vet them since they border Ethiopia,” he says.  