Q. When I got a job one year ago as a HR Assistant, I was elated. The company created the position for me after graduating from college with a Bachelor in Human Resource. Previously, I had worked in the same company as a secretary. Six months into the job, I realised that it didn't meet my expectations. There is little to be done in the HR department and my work is not challenging or motivating at all. I have a two-year contract with the company yet I feel deprived, tired and bored. Should I be outright with my boss? The company is yet to get the suitable replacement for me.   HR is a very practical profession and the theory learnt in class is only helpful when combined with the actual experience. In my interactions with upcoming HR professionals, I have noticed that the ones who are eager to learn and are persistently participating in HR processes like recruitment, CBA negotiations even as observers have an accelerated career advancement. You should also not shy from asking for professional assistance when required from the more experienced colleagues for you to learn. Within the HR department seek to discuss your dilemma with a senior colleague who should explain to you what the role entails and provide professional mentorship. The fact that this position was created for you could been the origin of this challenge. Do you have a job description for the role and are the responsibilities clear to you? It was a good step to pursue the degree in HR, however I would encourage you to pursue a postgraduate diploma from the recognised HR professional body in Kenya to gain practical skills to perform your role. Most organisations have realised that for them to succeed they have to value their human capital therefore there is a lot of importance placed on HR to provide guidance to the organisation to create an enabling work environment. You have more potential for career progression in the HR role to senior and more demanding positions which will give you the intrinsic satisfaction you are looking for. For you to grow in this career, you must be genuinely interested in people and have a desire to motivate them to unleash their full potential by creating an enabling environment for them to succeed. In the meantime, as your role evolves, you have the option of asking the management to allow you to perform both roles so that you don’t feel underutilised. Be encouraged because progressively you will get your footing as you gain more experience in the profession.   It’s illegal to reduce an employee’s salary without discussion and mutual agreement in writing.