Health is considered a basic human right and privilege — so much so that the World Health Organisation (WHO) has in its 1948 constitution the aspiration for the highest attainable standard of health as a fundamental right. All governments exert varying regulatory influence in its provision. The WHO has advanced the principle of universal health coverage (UHC) — which is one of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s ‘Big Four’ agenda pillars — to further enhance attainment of this social right and improve the overall well-being of human beings. UHC essentially means all have access to quality health services to the level of their need without conferring on them financial hardship. It has three components: Equity, quality services and protection from financial risk, in that order. On equity, all those in need of particular health services should access them in spite of their ability to pay. This implies that everybody can receive the requisite care despite their gender, ethnicity, geographical origin or socioeconomic status. IMPROVE HEALTH The second component means the services should be of quality good enough to improve the health of those seeking them. The third focuses on innovative methods of healthcare financing. I deliberately use “innovative” since healthcare insurance cannot be modelled on the traditional view of the insurance business. Kenya’s journey towards UHC has had ups and downs but with an overall improvement trend. Though with an insurance scheme since the 1960s, the National Social Health Insurance Bill 2004 was quashed by President Mwai Kibaki for reported technical and political reasons. There is a clamour to reform the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) to purchase comprehensive healthcare for all Kenyans. There has also been an attempt at improving equity by insuring students and senior citizens from age 70. You may not believe it but many African countries look to Kenya as a success story on healthcare financing. MISTREATMENT Where we have utterly failed is in the other two components. For an inexplicable reason, we have failed to find a formula for quality and equity of public healthcare. Our facilities are stories of inefficiency, stock-outs, user mistreatment and inefficiency. In the 2010 Constitution, Kenyans put this essential service under counties but, with few exceptions, that seems to have worsened the situation. The government leased equipment for counties but stories of them rotting in disuse for lack of operators abound. Provision of health services is inequitable with the better personnel and facilities concentrated in some regions. Kenya has to avoid the populism of big infrastructure and instant results mindset in health. One, we do not have infinite resources to spend on it. Two, spending more money in health won’t necessarily translate to better outcomes. The United States spends the biggest amount of its resources on healthcare yet the system is one of the most inefficient with some of the worst outcomes in the developed world. In contrast, countries such as Rwanda, Thailand and Ethiopia have relatively inexpensive UHC systems. TOMOGRAPHY MACHINES Learning from some of these countries does not require flying planeloads of officials on “benchmarking” tours; details of how their systems are structured are available at the WHO. Our healthcare decision makers seem to have been engulfed in a trance-like euphoria of thinking that installing computerised tomography machines (popularly CT-scans) and those for dialysis in every village will make the people healthier. That is health populism; it won’t work. Reforming NHIF to insure people to access facilities with poor or no services would be mediocrity. We need to think in a very rational way, and primary healthcare may be part of the solution. That would involve several undertakings. First, strengthen the lower units, specifically health centres, to offer inexpensive quality care and train health workers to rationalise care and cut wastage such as unnecessary laboratory tests or radiological examinations. REFERRAL SYSTEMS Secondly, make the health centre, with support of the county referral facilities, a unit of provision of screening and care for non-communicable diseases, the biggest contributor to our disease burden. Thirdly, boost upward and downward referral systems, equipping health centres and building new ones (at least one in every location). Fourthly, let stakeholders have sober dialogue on practical, inexpensive ways to improve efficiency as well as making all health workers feel appreciated. Effective primary healthcare may not be the miracle pill for our hailing health system. However, that is where we should begin. Dr Mwenda is a medical doctor and public health researcher in Nairobi. valmwenda@gmail.com.  