IN MUSANZE, RWANDA Champions Kwanthanze will on Thursday lock horns with compatriots Cheptil in an all-Kenyan girls’ volleyball semi-final on day five of the Brookside East Africa Secondary School Games here. The other last four clash will be a Rwandese affair as 2015 winners GS Indagaburezi face IPRC Kigali for a place in Saturday’s final. The clashes guarantee a Kenya versus Rwanda final yet again following last year’ battle between Kwanthanze and St Alloys, which the Kenyans won in Gulu, Uganda. Kwanthanze, who are gunning for a fourth title, finished top of Pool A after three wins out of three, while Cheptil were placed second in pool B behind top-placed Indagaburezi. Kwanthanze will start as favourites having edged out their opponents in their recent clash during last month’s National Term Two Games in Eldoret. But Cheptil coach Anne Birgen is confident they can upset the defending champions. “We want to be champions and that means beating the best. Kwanthanze are very experienced and a good side but we believe we can stop them,” the coach said on Wednesday. She will rely on Caroline Jeruto, who is the side's most experienced player, to rise to the occasion against Kwanthanze. Captain Benedine Jepng’etich is also expected to diligently execute her setter duties. Right attacker Sharon Jeruto, who is in Form One, will also look to put in a good show in the all-Kenyan clash. Cheptil, who have lost in five past finals during the regional games, won bronze at last year’s competition. Kwanthanze coach Justine Kigwari has called on his charges not to underestimate their opponents. “We have to give our best and be better than we have being since the competition started. The final beckons,” he said. FIXTURES Thursday Football Boys Kakamega v CIP Muhanga (Rwanda) St Mary’s Kitende (Uganda) v Olbolosat Girls G.S Remera (Rwanda) v Archbishop Njenga Nginda v Gaddafi Integrated (Uganda) Kawempe Muslim (Uganda) v Kwale Basketball Boys APE Rugunga (Rwanda) v Sigalame LDK (Rwanda) v Laiser Hill Volleyball Kapkenyeloi v Buremba SS (Uganda) Girls Semi-final Kwanthanze v Cheptil IPRC Kigali v GS Indagaburezi (Rwanda) Handball Girls’ semi-finals Rugby 7s Mbarara (Uganda) v St Peter’s Mumias Laiser Hill v ASPEKA (Rwanda) Chavakali v Jinja SS (Uganda) Mbarara (Uganda) v Laiser Hill JAM Muhanga (Rwanda) v St Peters Mumias Hockey Boys St Anthony’s v Ntare (Uganda) Kakungulu (Uganda) v Musingu Girls Namagunga (Uganda) v Kerugoya Old Kampala (Uganda) v Trans Nzoia Tigoi v Kakungulu (Uganda)   Imeta was excited to have equalled the championship record, on his final year in school.