Even before the ink has dried on the Jubilee government’s commitment to provide 500,000 affordable housing units by 2022 as a ‘Big Four’ agenda item, that is turning out to be subterfuge. The evictions in Kibera last month rendered more than 30,000 residents homeless and 2,000 children out of school. Places of worship were also bulldozed. While the evictions were, positively, to pave the way for the construction of a public road, they are gravely disturbing. First, they are in violation to the right to housing — which includes sanitation, water, food and education — which are guaranteed under Article 43 of the Constitution. Further, Kenya is a state party to international and regional human rights instruments, under which it has an obligation to provide affordable housing to vulnerable groups — in which category Kibera residents collectively fit. SOCIAL RIGHTS These include the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights; and the Protocol to the African Charter on Human and People’s Rights on the Rights of Women in Africa. Given that the evictions were carried out in the wee hours in the coldest month, they were not only inhumane but also in violation of the residents’ right to their inherent dignity, which was equally guaranteed under Article 28 of the Constitution. They are also in violation of the Prevention, Protection and Assistance to Internally Displaced Persons and Affected Communities Act 2012, which seeks to address Kenya’s sad history of unlawful evictions. Section 22 mandates the government to ensure displacement is carried out in a manner that is respectful to the special needs of women, children and persons with disabilities and that no harm is imposed on the displaced. So far, however, the ordeals of the Kibera residents show that the special needs were not factored; rather, the vulnerabilities of women, children and persons with disabilities were heightened. For example, for pupils of the demolished schools learning has been summarily terminated, depriving them of an education that would afford them a chance at a brighter future — and maybe break the cycle of their families’ poverty. CONTEND WITH BARRIERSFamilies have had to spend nights in the open, exposing them to cold, flu and pneumonia. Should they become sick, they will have to contend with barriers, including financial ones, to access healthcare as they must direct any money they have on them to survival, buying food and paying for toilet facilities. While the Kenya Urban Roads Authority says it had notified the residents, that notice was not adequate and was in bad faith. Kura had a deal with the residents that the evictions and demotions would be done after enumeration and relocation of affected persons. But the greatest concern is that the evictions were in disregard of an April 28 High Court order arising from Petition No. 974 of 2016 that prohibited the government from evicting the residents until an agreed resettlement action plan was in place. It was not. This reeks of the impunity that is increasingly rendering court orders ‘empty victories’ for litigants. Since it beckons the question if court orders cannot be complied with, then where does ‘Wanjiku’ seek reprieve from the powerful, in this case, the government? BIG FOUR AGENDACould the genesis of the reneging on the housing agenda be the fact that it is a campaign tool post the 2017 General Election and will, indeed, be once again come the next polls, hence the 2022 timeframe? It is imperative to interrogate all the Big Four items under the premise of human rights, where all the pillars shift from being mere campaign promises into a state obligation with the government responsible to fulfil. The right to housing is not only guaranteed in the Constitution but is also a government commitment under the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), whose overarching architect and foundation is to “leave no one behind”. MAKING CITIES SAFE Of significance is goal number 17 on sustainable cities and communities, which requires making cities safe and sustainable by ensuring access to safe and affordable housing. Clearly, the government has left behind the residents of the Kibera informal settlements — nay, the former Kibera informal settlements. The rest of us Kenyans should have some form of trepidation that, at some point, we, too, may be left behind as the Jubilee regime embarks on its Big Four agenda. Ms Ongaro, an advocate of the High Court of Kenya, is a researcher on human rights and gender. bevongaro@gmail.com.  