All government agencies have been directed to carry out a staff audit amid a move to replace the growing number of staff exiting the public service. The data is supposed to be compiled and submitted to the Ministry of Public Service by September 28. Public Service Cabinet Secretary Margaret Kobia said the move is part of the government’s efforts to strengthen the civil service, saying the current capacity gaps, agency work force and inadequate succession must urgently be addressed. “It is, therefore, proposed that each ministry undertakes a comprehensive review of its internal staff strength and the gaps or vacancies that exist at job group R and S per cadre,” reads a circular by Prof Kobia to all ministries and Attorney-General Paul Kihara dated August 8. MERIT PROMOTION The ministries have also been asked to identify suitable officers, currently serving under them in job group P-Q but with requisite qualifications, skills and competences thus merit promotion to be promoted to job groups R and S. Those in job group M and N will take the vacancies in job group P. Prof Kobia said her ministry and the Public Service Commission will work on a criteria for succession management in the mainstream civil service and effect the promotion of the identified staff from ministries. “This will therefore create space for recruitment and training of young professionals at entry and any other available levels within the civil service structure to rejuvenate the service,” said the CS. ENHANCE EFFICIENCY She said it is envisaged that the exercise once completed will strengthen and enhance efficiency and effectiveness in the public service in order to deliver its mandate to Kenyans' expectations. Prof Kobia said as currently composed, the civil service has glaring weaknesses in its performance hindering its adequate delivery of the national government agenda. She said there are capacity gaps at various technical levels within the public service structure particularly at middle and higher levels due to inadequate succession management, high staff turnover in critical technical skills, negative work culture and attitudes and staffing imbalances between support staff and technical personnel. WEAK STAFF STRENGTH “At a glance, the current civil service data shows a weak staff strength of 63,368 in post against an establishment of 96,036. The implication is that the mainstream civil service is currently operating at 65 per cent of its optimal staff strength,” she said. The matter has been complicated by the fact that a blanket moratorium by the Treasury on hiring is still in place.   The report shows that only one per cent of employees are 18 to 24 years old.