Governors at the Coast have spelt out their achievements, a year after their election last August. While some are serving their second and last terms in office and seeking to consolidate their legacies, the first-termers also want to make a mark in uplifting the lives of residents in the hitherto marginalised region. In Mombasa, Governor Hassan Joho counts the new look and fully equipped Coast General Provincial Hospital among his major success stories. "Part of the restoration is erecting the pavements and we plan to extend to the sub-counties after we are done with the CBD," the county director of communication Richard Chacha said. He said the town’s cleanliness has improved, with the Kibarani dumpsite being relocated. "Reclamation of Kibarani is a big achievement for us. We are committed to ensure Mombasa becomes the cleanest city," he said. In Tana River, Governor Dhadho Godhana, who is serving his first term, said job creation, building of roads and bridges and reduction of money owed to contractors are some of his successes. UPGRADED ROADS Mr Godhana said his administration has employed a “large number” of youth and women, and was determined to ensure 51 per cent of jobs went to the youth. He said his government has upgraded more than 100km of roads. Nearly half of Sh1.7 billion debt inherited by his administration, he said, had been paid. "The Garsen market had stalled since the contractor was not paid. We made sure that the contractor was paid and he is on site to finish the job,” he said. Mr Dhadho has partnered with the Coast Development Authority to revive the Mango Pulp processing company, boosting farmers’ earnings. SERVICE DELIVERY In Taita Taveta, Governor Granton Samboja and his deputy Majala Mlaghui have ensured efficient service delivery. Some 250 residents have been enrolled to the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) programme. The Sh40 million project targets the needy and is to benefit 7,500 households by next year. The county is in the process of installing a 64 slice CT scan machine at Moi County Referral Hospital in Voi. The county has launched subsidised Artificial Insemination services for dairy farmers to increase milk production and improve breeds. In Lamu, Governor Fahim Twaha said he had fulfilled pledges made during the campaigns. The governor said his priority was to ensure unity among various tribes and avoiding ethnic and religious divisions. TITLE DEEDS Mr Twaha said his efforts have yielded fruit, and Lamu is now more peaceful and stable. He said 5,000 residents, who didn’t have title deeds, now have this crucial document, adding that the county is planning to resettle at least 20,000 squatters by the end of his term. Mr Twaha said bursaries worth Sh60 million have been distributed to more than 7,000 secondary school and college students. He said the kitty has been raised to Sh120 million. In Kwale, Governor Salim Mvurya said his administration has made tremendous progress in education, health, infrastructure development, water services, agriculture and trade. The county has opened a CT-scan unit at Msambweni Referral Hospital and an intensive care unit. It has also opened theatres in Samburu, Kinango and Lungalunga district hospitals. Mr Mvurya said the county is constructing a fruit processing plant in Shimba Hills. LIT UP MALINDI In agriculture, the county has distributed more than 800 dairy and beef cattle and Galla goats to improve local breeds. Farmers from all the four sub-counties have benefited. Governor Mvurya’s government has also increased capitation for all youth polytechnic students from Sh12,000 to Sh15, 000 annually. In Kilifi, Governor Amason Kingi prides himself in having lit up Malindi, Watamu, Mambrui, Kilifi and Mtwapa to facilitate a 24-hour economy. County director of communication Charles Nyiro said apart from improving roads in the county, more than 1,200 acres have been put under irrigation to improve food security in the county. Dr Nyiro said a Sh500 million ultra-modern medical complex is under construction and will handle referrals from Tana River and Lamu counties. Reporting by Mohamed Ahmed, Stephen Oduor, Kalume Kazungu, Fadhili Fredrick, Charles Lwanga and Lucy Mkanyika  