The 2016 National Sevens Series champion Homeboyz have thrown down the gauntlet on their rivals, vowing to accomplish the unthinkable this season. After winning Prinsloo Sevens two weeks ago, the Deejays notched up their second season's title with victory at the Sepetuka Sevens last weekend in Eldoret to leave their coach Paul “Pau” Murunga in belligerent mood as he eyes more success in the next four legs of the National Sevens Circuit. “We want to set the record by winning all the six events in the Series this season,” declared Murunga as the circuit takes a two-week break before heading to Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos for Kabeberi Sevens on August 18. Mombasa will host Driftwood Sevens on August 25 before teams head to Kisumu for Dala Sevens on September 8. Christie Sevens in Nairobi will wrap up the six-leg Series on September 15 at the RFUEA ground. Homeboyz downed Mwamba 19-12 and 27-0 in the finals of the Prinsloo and Sepetuka Sevens respectively. “We now have what it takes to reclaim the Series title after our good start in Nakuru and Eldoret,” said Murunga, who reckoned that winning Prinsloo and Sepetuka Eldoret would not be enough and rallied his charges to show their mettle in the rest of the events. “Winning in Machakos and retaining Dala Sevens title will be key to our Series title chase since we won in Mombasa and Kisumu last year but failed to defend the Series title,” said Murunga. Murunga attributed their good start to an excellent pre-season, depth and chemistry between the young and experienced players in the team. “We started the season well-conditioned with no injuries as compared to last season where we had several of our players going for surgeries," said Murunga adding that winning the Cup and Division II at Sepetuka was a clear manifestation of their depth and quality. “The young players are learning the ropes pretty fast and the blend between them and senior players is working well,” said Murunga. He singled out winger Mark Wandetto, who is now the Series top try scorer with 11 tries, having also been named the Most Valuable Player at Sepetuka Sevens and fly-half Johnstone Olindi, who was declared young player of the tournament at Sepetuka. Homeboyz chairman Mike Rabar noted that change of playing structures are working for his side with the players getting to understand the game better. “The players are well motivated and the spirit has gone up under Murunga’s leadership,” said Rabar as he promised the players good rewards if they win all events in the Series.   Earlier on, Mwamba came from 7-0 down to silence Nondescripts.