“Human beings are creatures of habit; if we do something which brings pleasure to us, the brain records it, is drawn to repeat it and that is how habit begins to form,” says Dr. Emily Obwaka, public health specialist and executive director, Teen Challenge Kenya. This week, MY NETWORK looks at the possible blurred lines between engaging in activities that we love and when these activities begin to control us to become what experts call behavioural addictions. The result of these simple and harmless looking addictions, it turns out, could be as dangerous and as disastrous as an addiction to drugs and other harmful substances. “Like with any other addiction, behavioural addiction occurs in four stages: the experimentation, getting into and trying out the habit; then the social stage where you begin to realise that you are doing more of the addiction but you console yourself that you still have boundaries. At the third stage, the addiction has taken the centre-stage of your life and everything that you do revolves around the satisfaction of this addiction. The fourth stage is characterised by full-blown addiction where you have to do this thing in order to feel normal,” Dr. Obwaka explains. Football, betting, make-up, tea/coffee, television, phone addiction, cooking, food and so on are some of the behavioural addictions that one could be hooked to. “Behavioural addictions are attractive, seen as mostly cool – no one talks about their negative consequences in detail so in a way, the mind of the doer and even the society is totally closed to the negative consequences,” she says. There are consequences to any form of addiction which mostly manifests when it begins to affect your life socially, economically and health wise. These addictions can also sap your resourcefulness and creativity because your mind is constantly trapped by the addiction. “Starving the addiction; recognising when you can stop on your own and when you need professional intervention and then acting appropriately; reading about the negative effects of the habit and better understanding the danger you are getting into; and basically, recalibrating your life; are some of the steps you can take to get away from the addiction(s),” she advises.  DENNIS ODERO, 24Camera OperatorAddiction: Gaming    Dennis’ love for gaming started when he was in primary school; purely driven by peer pressure. “I went to Arya Primary School and a lot of my classmates were into gaming. At the time, brick game ruled which quickly evolved into complex forms such as Play Stations,” he says. He was initially drawn to gaming because he felt that it sharpened his IQ – improved his body coordination and his ability to multitask. “That thrill got me hooked to games and it does not help that we have new games coming up every other day,” he says. To support this habit, Dennis had to skip lunch and save the money which he later spent on gaming. “Not having meals meant that I could not concentrate in class and needless to say, my performance was affected. If you are a gamer, nothing else matters to you except being able to play so I was untidy most of the time. When the money I saved for gaming was not enough, I started gambling,” he says. By the time he got to high school, gaming was one of the reasons he sneaked out of school and carried prohibited items such as mobile phones to school. “With a smartphone, I could download any game I wanted and carry it to school and that became my primary source of entertainment,” he says. When he got to campus, his gaming had evolved to gambling because of games such as pool where money bets would be placed by opponents. “I now own a play station in my house. Sometimes I leave work early just to go and play. And with internet, comes the online games which means endless supply of new games which I end up spending a lot of money on,” he says. Dennis says that the play station sometimes brings issues between him and his girlfriend because he tends to spend more of his free time on his play station than with her. “But I would say that after I completed university, I have had less time to play because I had to find a job and take care of my bills. Besides, problems with my girlfriend also just made me more aware that I might be spending too much time on games. I would not say that I have this addiction under control, I am just more aware of it and I believe that is where the journey to recovery begins,” he says.  TREEZA AWUOR, 23Personal Assistant/StudentAddiction: Cooking    When Treeza started cooking, there were a combination of factors but the love for cooking was not one of these factors; she started out of necessity. “When I joined university I ate out a lot, with my friends, and this made me gain a lot of weight. I decided to start cooking in my hostel and that is how, what would later become my excessive indulgence in cooking, was born,” she says. She constantly finds herself on YouTube – learning about new recipes and better ways of using local and cheap ingredients. “I realised that my love for cooking was becoming an issue when I started staying up late or wake up earlier than normal, to cook. Most of the time, I stay up late watching cooking programmes on YouTube after which I then wake up the following day to prepare. I am constantly doing something around cooking,” she explains. It does not end at cooking, Treeza’s cooking excesses are intertwined with social media so that anything she cooks, finds its way to social media. “My phone has to be fully charged before I start cooking because I will be on Instagram (@am_teriyaki) every step of the way. Some good things have come out of this because I was approached for a cooking show but I realised that is not what I really wanted and I ended up with a PA job,” she says. Treeza hardly has a social life because she spends all of her free time in the house, cooking, reading about cooking or interacting with friends on social media about cooking. “Most of my salary goes to the supermarkets’ ingredients section,” she says. For Treeza, cooking is like a ritual; she dresses up for her cooking and the different aromas excite her. “I have just one option. Since quitting this addiction is not an option, I will find a way of turning this into an income generating activity, in due course,” she says.  PAUL NJUGUNA, 24ActorAddiction: Football    Football has many fans, which makes the distinction between just love for sport and addiction a tad difficult. But Paul knows what addiction is because he is there and still struggling to wiggle himself out. “It is beyond my control. Football is in charge of my time; everything that I do seems to be about football and this even informs my associations – the friends I make,” he says. Paul says he can skip a meal or work to watch football. Or live- stream a match at a most inappropriate time like when his colleagues are rehearsing. “Because of football, I go to places that I would not ordinarily go to; such as clubs. I desire to watch football with other people – it is more interesting that way. And sometimes this is in clubs which constantly gets me in trouble with my colleagues because I work for a Christian organisation and also, being in clubs is against what I believe in,” he says. Football takes up so much of his time, leaving him with very little to spend with his girlfriend – which constantly causes friction between them, as well as with his family. “Football has also made me quite argumentative and difficult. For example, in a house where I am the only person who wants to watch football, I will get annoyed with everyone else for not letting me have my way. Sometimes I go out to watch football, and while I am ordinarily good with time, I find myself returning home so late because of a football match. This is against the rules at home,” he says. Paul admits to have also gotten into gambling. “Gaming and football can take up my entire day, especially if I am not paying. When I am paying, I will stay until I have no more money to spend – spending the little cash I have that would go to other things. But I am getting to a point where I am realising that I need to refocus my money,” he said.  CYNTHIA NYAWARA, 20StudentAddiction: Television    Her food can burn while cooking, neighbours can fight and kill themselves and exams can be as hard as a rock but Cynthia’s priority is the programme she is watching on TV. “Soaps, movies, animations, news all keep me glued to the TV. I basically plan my life around my TV. I stay alone so the lack of a second person to warn me when I am spending too much time gives so much space for my excess love for TV to flourish,” she says. Cynthia is quite new to the city and at her school, and while there are classmates who are keen on socialising and showing her around the city, she would rather just be in her house. “I rarely hang out with my peers because I prefer to go home and watch TV. I feel that every time the TV is off, I am missing out on something. And the result is I stay up late to watch TV, sometimes failing to study for my exams. On most nights, I pass the night on the chair because only sleep seems to have the ability to get me away from the television when I am in the house,” she says. When her love for TV started, it was all paved by good intentions: get more exposure, understand her world better and as an aspiring actress, watching TV was a way of bringing role models closer. “I realised that watching too much TV is a problem when I missed an interview because I started watching TV lost track of time,” she says. She is currently learning to control the amount of time that she spends watching TV. “I have started to recognise that this is a problem; I have realised that education is important and the TV is not going anywhere. But in truth, this is something I am still struggling with,” she says.  DAISY AKOTH, 22ActressAddiction: Make-up    Many young women love make-up so at first glance, it is difficult to establish when the habit of using make-up has moved past just being an accessory with aesthetic value to something that fundamentally defines us. Daisy should know. “When I started using make up after high school, it was a pastime. I liked how women with make-up looked so I started to use lipstick once in a while then every day; I graduated to using make-up on my entire face and today, sixty per cent of my salary goes to make-up,” she says. Perhaps she should have sensed a problem when make-up became too much of her preoccupation – checking out cosmetic shops all the time and prioritising make-up in her finances. She is currently saving for Mac products. “I spend up to one hour every morning on make-up and I find that I cannot go without make up so I have to keep reapplying. It makes me feel confident because it hides my flaws. I do not have to be going somewhere to apply make-up. And if there was an important function that I was invited to but I do not have make-up, I will pass,” she says. Daisy does not think twice before spending her savings on buying different brands of make-up that she does not necessarily need, at the expense of more important things she was saving towards. Also, she finds it totally normal to skip meals because she is saving to buy make-up. “Sometimes I turn down helping someone in a financial crisis because I just want to spend the money on make-up. I think make-up is important but prioritising it at the expense of helping my friends is inappropriate,” she says.  *** Of mobile phones and addictions: Mobile phones are on our faces: our pictures are on our phones, even time is checked on our phones, our cameras, diaries, emails…practically everything that we regularly need is on our phones so it makes a lot of sense that we peek at our phones every now and then. But when does this seemingly harmless habit translate into an addiction that requires rehabilitation centres? Female college students spend an average of 10 hours a day on their cell phones and their male counterparts spend nearly eight hours. Excessive use of mobile phones poses potential risks to academic performance, according to a Baylor University study on cell phone activity published in the Journal of Behavioural Addictions. Technology addiction rehabilitation centres such as Restart, in Seattle, Internet and Tech Addiction Anonymous (ITAA), Morningside Recovery and Camp Grounded are no longer a novel idea, underlining the reality of the problem posed by cell phone addiction. So what are the signs that you are addicted to your mobile phone? According to psychguides.com which provides information for the identification of symptoms and signs of psychological disorders, and effective treatment and recovery; guides contain expert consensus guidelines for treatments and resources including relevant studies, at least four of the following signs and symptoms are thought to comprise criteria for cell phone addiction: A need to use the cell phone more and more often in order to achieve the same desired effect. Persistent failed attempts to use cell phone less often. Preoccupation with smartphone use. Turning to cell phone when experiencing unwanted feelings such as anxiety or depression. Excessive use characterised by loss of sense of time. Putting a relationship or job at risk due to excessive cell phone use. Easily irritable in the absence of your cell phone. Need for newest cell phone, more applications, or increased use. Withdrawal symptoms, when cell phone or network is unreachable.   Video gaming can be addictive in the same way as cocaine or gambling.