The August school holiday break kept everyone in the village very busy. I, for one, graduated into a fully crowned village elder. My new role comes with daunting tasks such as negotiating tough dowry transactions and handling complex cases that involve young men accused of “breaking the leg of a girl.” A cousin of mine whom I have always known to be a humble altar boy recently requested to see me in private. He was hesitant in coming forth with the pressing issue that had brought him to me. Suspecting that this could be relating to matters of the heart, I broke the ice by asking if he had finally found someone. He nodded shyly in the affirmative. He also confessed that they were expectant and that the girl was due in a few months. He wanted to visit the girl's home and embark on the customary dowry negotiations. His was one of those complex cases because he had “broken the leg of a girl” as was our way of referring to the act of impregnating a girl before paying for her dowry. PLANS To gauge his level of preparedness, I interrogated him on his plans so far. He laid out a detailed plan that included a list of invitees drawn his former colleagues in the bachelor’s club to accompany him during the visit. The itinerary for the day had already been printed out and he had a list of downloaded internet links of the Dos and Don’ts when interacting with prospective in-laws. If fact, he credited Google for giving him plenty of insight on the issue of dowry payment. After he was done sharing his plans with me, I sat him gently and in a polite manner, guided him through the basics of customary dowry negotiation. At the end of our meeting, it was clear that all the preparations he had made so far were in vain as far as the ceremony was concerned. ARRIVAL Rehearsals at my young cousin’s home had been scheduled for12pm sharp, but it is not quite in order to keep time in the village. I therefore checked in at 1pm to find the rest of the negotiators on our team already present and deeply engrossed in a serious strategic meeting. Duties were delegated to each one of us. A fellow negotiator who looked steely with red eyes and broad shoulders was given money in 10 small envelopes. Those small portions always come in handy depending on how many cups and plates the girl had broken in her mother’s kitchen that we may be required to pay for. The girls home was just across the road and soon we were there resplendent with a few baskets of goodies and crates of soda. After the usual food, family introductions and singing two praise songs followed by sharing the word from the holy book, it was time for the negotiators to go to the negotiations room. NEGOTIATION ROOM I had earlier bragged of leading tough negotiations of brides who are daughters of warlords in Somali and Afghanistan, and this paid off by earning me a seat among the chief negotiators. We walked into a group of well-fed men who all looked like major landlords in the upper parts of Nairobi, and they sized us critically. I introduced my self as Baba Brian and added that I owned two prime plots in Kamulu and Kantafu Heights. I thought the mere mention of Kantafu Heights would intimidate the hosts since land in such leafy suburbs along Kangundo Road don’t come cheap. It was obvious that they had never heard of such suburbs but I was given the benefit of doubt and waved to a chair. Our chief negotiator was instructed to issue his problem statement right away as there was no need to repeat the introductions. By the look of things this was going to be a tough one. PROVERBS “The buying of a wife begins with one small gesture, a long lawsuit breeds poverty, the breaking of a betrothal is no small matter, and the lawsuit of a fool keeps the court sitting all day”, he begun. Our chief negotiator squandered all the proverbs I had helped him memorise in just one opening sentence! In our village, proverbs are the tomato sauce with which words are eaten, without them you are just like an empty gong. Fortunately, I had another long list of proverbs in my phone. I texted them to him with a stern warning to be more economical with his consumption. He was starting to sweat and the hosts were growing impatient with each uttered proverb. Finally, he concluded and invited the lead negotiator from the host’s side. TOUGH TACKLE “A secret agreement enabled people to kill the enemy”, the negotiations guru from the other end started. He proceeded to cleverly space 23 proverbs within his 10minutes discourse, pausing in between to let them sink, massaging his tummy and gently scrubbing his grey stubble. In the end they informed us that they were great followers of Jesus of Nazareth and therefore did not subscribe to the intricacies of the dowry negotiations of old. For instance, they had no intention of cross charging any small tea flasks and earthen pots that the girl may have broken in her mother’s kitchen. We were instructed to combine all the money from the 10 small envelopes and place it into one envelope to be handed over to their honorary treasurer. After gingerly counting the money -most of which was in small fifty shillings’ denominations- the treasure put the money in his inner pocket. He thanked us profusely for taking time off our busy schedules to come and pay respect to the girl’s family. His closing remarks included three more proverbs that stunned all of us including the older men from his side. We all rose and shook hands before joining the rest of the party outside for more food and sour porridge. I was a bit disappointed that I did not given a chance to prove my well-honed negotiation skills, but I live to fight another day.   "Give me a hug," the girl blurted out.