Vincent Wangara, 27, exudes elegance and style. He has tapped into the men attire by offering stylish and trendy suits. This was driven by a strong desire to create the modern man to match the modern world. Wangara is pushing to create well-fitting suits for men. “Classic grey, navy, sky blue, orange and black hues mark a selection of styles that lengthen a man’s stature and trims his silhouette. The designs offer options of playing around with casual, business and formal slacks, blazers, and more different occasions.” SHORT STINT IN MODELLING The first born in a family of 12 started the venture while still in college after a short stint in modelling. He had joined modelling in order to be "cool" but through his interaction with designers, he fell in love with the undertaking. “I started Vinn Clizz Ltd in 2013 but the business came to pick up in 2014 with the help of guys like Rick Maina who helped in publicising my brand.”   Like any other venture, starting out was not easy. “I had a friend whom I learnt a lot from. I also did my own research but it was still very difficult for me to venture out due to lack of capital. I first started out as a broker. After sourcing for clients, I’d arrange for a meeting along Moi Avenue at the Tom Mboya statue where I’d take their measurements. I’d then proceed to River Road where I’d employ the services of a seasoned tailor and we would share the cost.” He wanted to avoid his customers dealing directly with the already established dress makers thereby cutting him off. And it worked because he established a customer base that is still with him to date.The first suit he ever made for a client earned him a profit of Sh800. He sold it for Sh4500. At a time when peculiar trends such as colour blocking were emerging, Vincent through his designs- Vinn Clizz- established himself with coloured suits and special linings.   “The interior of the suits that I make stand out because I always try to use a special kind of lining. Its either busy with polka dots or colourful in another design. The lapel on my jackets also stand out in that they smaller and sharper that your normal suit. That sets me apart from other designers” WOMEN INCLUDED When he started out, Vinn only did male clothing designs, but over the years, he has ventured out to making suits for women too. The designs are pocket-friendly and can be worn on any occasion. The clothing line boasts of an able team of young entrepreneurs is clearly shaping the men’s fashion industry. From his humble beginnings at the Tom Mboya statue, his office is now situated along Tom Mboya street at Victoria House. “I employ five tailors plus I work with independent designers who source for clients then we split the cost.” Just like any other budding or established entrepreneur, Vinn Clizz has also encountered his fair dose of challenges. “Since our suits are unique, the fabric used is mostly imported which means it’s a bit more expensive than normal. Sometimes it’s also delayed which delays the completion of the attire and sometimes this does not go down well with clients.”   Wangara’s biggest break was when he dressed Central Organisation of Trade Unions(COTU) boss Francis Atwoli. “It felt so surreal. I was very nervous at first but eventually got over it as time progressed. For Atwoli’s suit, we had to take the measurements one at a time. For example, we first did the vest, took it back for fitting, then did the sleeves and also took them back for fitting and so on before everything was stitched together.” He has gone further to dress other prominent personalities including former Budalangi member of parliament and Chief Administrative Secretary Ababu Namwamba. In the entertainment industry, he has dressed Female Musician Fena Gitu including many others. In future he hopes to dress the president as well as his deputy. To market his brand and products, he uses social media, referrals and events.   “I have managed to be invited to and attended various fashion shows and events within and outside the country like the Kigali Fashion week in Rwanda. If all goes well, I will be attending the Paris Fashion Week in France later this year. My suits cost between Sh7,500 and Sh30,000 depending on the fabric.” Vinn Clizz has not only been a clothing line but a breeding ground for other budding designers. Wangara currently carries out an apprenticeship program where he incubates designers. “In three years to come, I want this to be a fashion house where we dress an individual from head to toe. That is including the accessories and even shoes.”   Having bagged several awards. In 2015, he won the Designer of the Year award in the Kenya Glam Awards. 2016 saw him bag the Designer of the year in the Pwani Fashion awards. He went on to win the same award in 2017. In the fashion world, his advice to the youth is for them to seize the opportunity and push for what they believe in despite their circumstance.   Oliver Wamachari was devastated when his KCSE results were cancelled