The radical changes anticipated in the National Police Service have started taking effect, with the transfer of senior bosses being effected. Over 500 officers in the ranks of chief inspectors and inspectors have been moved this week. Deputy Inspector-General in charge of Kenya Police Edward Njoroge moved the 400 chief inspectors and 70 inspectors to different jurisdictions to undertake similar or different assignments. According to Mr Njoroge, the changes are meant to enhance services across the country and those transferred have been asked to report to their new stations immediately. IMMEDIATE EFFECT “The Deputy Inspector-General of Kenya Police Service has approved the deployment of the following officers with immediate effect. Release the officers to report to their new stations by August 14, 2018 and confirm departure/ arrival,” a circular sent to stations read. In the changes, Central Police Officer Commanding Station Alphonse Ngundo has been transferred to Kajiado, while Chief Inspector Joseph Ngao, who was attached to Nairobi Area Traffic patrol, has now been transferred to the Kericho traffic office. Mr Patrick Osuru, who was attached to the Anti-Stock Theft Unit, has been moved to Nakuru Police Station, while the divisional traffic enforcement officers for Kilimani and Lang'ata have been moved to Murang'a and Kajiado respectively. STRATEGISE REFORMS The changes affected officers in the regional command, the Anti-Stock Theft Unit, Kenya Railways and Ports Police Unit, Traffic Department, Presidential Escort Unit, Dog Unit, Diplomatic Police Unit, Maritime Unit, Tourist Police Unit and the Police Staff Colleges. The changes came just three days after Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i met with police bosses at the Kenya School of Government to strategise on reforms. Dr Matiang’i and Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet had been instructed by President Uhuru Kenyatta to implement police reforms including housing issues within 30 days. Recently, Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti made similar changes affecting 368 officers, with divisional criminal investigations officers being the most affected. The changes are set to affect both the regular and administration police units and structure of command in the service and the fate of the AP and the Anti-Stock Theft units.  