In these acutely competitive times, every worker looking for a new job or wishing to keep their current job must have a set of cutting-edge skills. These skills are over and above the core career skills. They are instrumental in selling one’s essential skills. Those skills enable employees to get along with their colleagues, to make critical decisions, solve problems, develop respect and ultimately become strong ambassadors for the organisation. SOCIAL MEDIA The ability to use technology is at the top of the essential skills. It is amazing how many people graduate from schools without the least appreciation of useful computer skills. One doesn’t have to know how to write computer programmes or how to resuscitate a dying computer network, but he must master the common software programmes used in the office to accomplish day-to-day tasks. Proficiency in common Microsoft Office applications — Microsoft’s Word, Excel and PowerPoint — is essential for virtually every profession. Professionals of all shades and stripes must understand how social media can be used to harness their job. CLOUD COMPUTING They must be deft in using technology to mine and distil information from the Internet. Cloud computing or the basics of keeping company and personal information safe should be familiar concepts. Every organisation is now collecting copious amount of data than they did a few years ago, thanks to technology. That data is critical to the survival of any organisation; it’s the fuel that keeps an organisation’s engines humming. Regardless of the type of job you are eyeing, numeracy skill alone will not cut it: ability to infer meaning from data must feature on your CV. WRITING CLEARLY Ability to communicate clearly will get you into the interview room to sell your core skills. With the pervasive texting, tweeting and emoji-riddled discussions, articulate communicators are getting rare. Fewer and fewer people can write clear sentences, much less engage in professionally stimulating conversation. The secret to improving one’s competences in communication is to read avidly, and to write regularly. And not just reading unfettered content on the Internet, but reading mentally stimulating material, mainly found in books. Reading as a hobby is associated with keeping the brain alert. Reading aids one to improve on their speech, prevents memory loss and relaxes the brain. RELATE WELL Salient interpersonal skills are golden. Ability to relate well with others is an underrated skill, yet vital. It is paramount that one knows their blind spots; things they do, say or insinuate that do not sit well with others. It may be how you dress or speak of people of other faiths, gender, tribes or races. In sum, we need to acknowledge our rough edges and keep sanding them, to jell with others. The writer is an informatics specialist. Email: samwambugu@gmail.com @samwambugu2  