Private and State entities in the country have until September 15 to adopt new quality and environmental management standards in use across 160 countries. The new standards, 2015 edition of ISO 9001(Quality Management Systems) and ISO 14001 (Environmental Management Systems) promote higher levels of efficiency in their processes, pay keen attention to customer feedback on products and services and incorporate a product use and end of life cycle manual to mitigate environmental degradation. The new norms introduced by International Standards Organisation (ISO) came into force in September 2015. So far 62 per cent of public and private entities have since transitioned. Risk exclusion Addressing company executives on the new standards on Thursday, Industry, Trade and Co-operatives Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya said state and private entities must move to the new standards or risk exclusion. “Come September 15, businesses, procurement agencies and regulatory bodies must check validity of certification forthwith from any entity the do business with,” he said. The new standards target an improved check on quality, health, safety and environmental protection as well as regulatory risks for domestic products and services while the export-bound goods must be checked for conformity to sustain access to foreign markets. CS Munya said all companies must seek certification locally from Kenya Bureau of Standards, SGS Kenya or Bureau Veritas Kenya adding that no foreign accreditation certificate will be recognised. KENAS Chief Executive Martin Chesire said accreditation provided assurance to trading partners across borders that Kenyan companies had all their processes tested, products inspected and certified to the trading partners’ requirements, thus overcoming trade barriers by assuring compliance to the World Trade Organisation(WTO)/Technical Barriers to Trade(TBT) agreement. WTO/TBT agreement ensures that technical regulations, standards, and conformity assessment procedures are non-discriminatory and do not create unnecessary obstacles to trade at a global level. Munya directed non-conforming companies that still ride on the expired ISO 9001 (2008 edition) and ISO 14001 (2004 edition) standards to take urgent measures to have their processes audited ahead of being awarded new certification. “Upon expiry of the deadline Kenas must outlaw all certificates for the outdated Standards and order their withdrawal. The affected companies must inform their clients that their products and services do not conform to internationally accepted quality and environmental management standards. “Kenas must repossess the certifications with companies directed to remove any claims of certification, such as use of marks or logos including in corporate stationery, marketing materials, websites, social media, and other brandings in building and vehicles will be illegal,” he said. The new ISO 14001(2015) ropes in top management in formulation, implementation, monitoring and reporting of the measures taken. The new standards takes cognizance of outsourcing and requires companies to influence practices within the affiliate companies ensuring they have efficient processes and safeguard the environment. Only 62 per cent of private and public entities have so far conformed.  