There comes a time when the bird must leave the nest, and this bird is absolutely terrified to make that move. The last time I vowed to move out was in a moment of frustration after the matatu on our route went on strike. I almost got late for work and ended up spending unbudgeted for cash on an Uber ride. That evening, I entered the gate ready to announce to my mother that I was leaving the nest. The instant she swung open the door, I was hit by a rich aroma of chicken broth and fried plantain. In her hand she held a bowl of guacamole which she was about to chill in the fridge right before dinner time.  Needless to say, I swallowed my “big announcement”. COMFORT Later that night as I settled in my warm bed, my tummy full and in jolly spirits after a hearty laugh with mom over dinner, I thought long and deep. Was I ready to give up all the comfort that came with living in my mother’s house? My father gives the most amazing hugs and thinks all his children are heroes. Was I willing to distance myself from all his unconditional love and praises? Even the cat that insists on sharing my bed seemed to concur with me that I needed to hang on a little longer. So I decided to wait for a compelling reason to move out and the wait has proven to be shorter than I had hoped for. I have started looking for houses online and a few basic necessities to settle down. My mother is struggling not to get involved and were she not so respectful of my choices, we would be shopping for curtains this weekend. However, I requested her to let me do this on my own and only come in when I request for help. Although she claims to be proud of me for making such a bold step, I have caught her stealing glances at me on more than one occasion trying to spot any signs that I could be having second thoughts. She is an amazing mother and worth every brave face I have been putting up for her the last few days. Here are six reasons I have been mumbling to myself as I house-hunt, and I hope it will be helpful for anyone else sailing in this boat: It is an opportunity to enhance self-awareness and develop personal character.I believe that those nights spent alone in my house (I will need to get used to this phrase) will give me ample time to think about my goals, my strengths and weaknesses, and also to make some key life decisions. It will allow me to look within especially on my flaws without deflecting my thoughts to conversations with other people. Chores will harness my responsibility in terms of taking care of the house, time discipline and so forth. I will learn what tasks I enjoy and which I detest by doing them regularly unlike at home where I normally just help out when I am around. There is guaranteed autonomy and quick decision making.Sometimes my mother asks me to make tea or run an errand just when I have grabbed the duvet and settled down for a nice read.  Of course I rise up and obey because she raised us right but at times I wish I could postpone some of those chores. They are never an emergency, you know. Then there is the issue of consulting with members what they wish to have for dinner. I could just go ahead and cook what I wish to eat for supper but my mother’s house is not ran dictator-style. I think I will enjoy postponing errands and making decisions on the go once I’m out of the nest. The quietness boosts concentration and focus on a task.I have not told her this yet, but one of the reasons am moving out is that my mother does not quite understand how this writing business works. She will call out for me when I’m right in the middle of a paragraph and by the time I resume, the thought trail is gone for good. To be fair, I also distract her from her bible study or when she is jotting recipes for her catering business. I think leaving will be very beneficial to both of us in being more focused. It deepens the value of relationships.Absence is said to make the heart grow fonder. Sometimes I miss my folks in the course of the day especially when am having a tough day. I can only imagine how much more I would miss them if I didn’t see them for a whole week.  I think moving out will ensure I never take my parents and siblings for granted. It is an opportunity to exercise great stewardship. The greatest fear I have is bills. I recently overheard someone lamenting over fraud electricity tokens. Newspaper headlines on the rising cost of living is not helping much either. Fortunately, I was a member of the scout movement back in the day and we were taught some basic survival skills while camping out in the forest. If push comes to shove, I will figure a way of cooking without electricity or gas. After all, once a scout, always a scout. It eases the transition to the next phase of life.Eventually I was going to leave my parents’ home because I hope to have a family and home of my own.  Moving out will be an opportunity to shape my own ways of doing things so that when the time comes to make a home, I will not be clueless or worse, replicate my mother’s home to my own. When I mentioned to my mother of my impending plans, she fell silent for a minute then told me that when children move out at a certain age, they are likely not to come back home as full time residents. We laughed for a good five minutes but then a sombre mood ensued. What followed was a deep session of advice which I cannot narrate here but yes, vitenge and ruracio were mentioned therein.     