The Association for the Physically Disabled of Kenya (APDK) in Port Reitz, Mombasa has received Sh8 million boost for running its operations from long term friends – Jungend Club Weingarten from Germany. APDK Rehabilitation Clinic is well known and admits and facilitates the rehabilitation of disabled children from poor backgrounds. APDK's National Director Hubert Seifert thanked President Gerhard Junginger for the support and friendship he has established with APDK for the last 40 years. He said that the club supports both the clinic and churches in Mbungoni and Mtopanga. HARD TIMES “In the last few years, it has been very hard for the clinic to run and also to pay our staff but we are grateful to our friends for helping us out.” Mr Seifert said. Mr Seifert urged the Mombasa County government to support the running of the clinics and the Bombolulu centre. “We truly appreciate your commitment and dedication but continue lobbying the county government to support not only the clinic here but also the Bombolulu project. It cannot survive on its own,” he said. He said he has appealed to the Deputy Governor William Kingi to support their projects. “Make the voice of the people living with disabilities heard,” he added. Mr Junginger said that he was dismayed by the facilities, which he said he saw forty years ago when he first visited the clinic. “I am so proud to see what difference my contribution and that of others from Germany has made. I am grateful for what has been accomplished.” Mr Junginger said. MCA Mombasa MCA representing people with disabilities, Ms Ramla Said, who was once a student at APDK, thanked the Jungend Club members for their consistent support. “Thanks [to] everyone for being here; this is home for me. I was brought up here and I want to appreciate you for your continued support,” Ms Ramla said. National programmes manager Benson Kiptum noted that the association has had challenges especially at the Bombolulu centre, and called for unity of purpose to bring it back to its feet. He also urged county governments in the Coast region to support them give the services to the poor, disabled and needy members of the society.  