One of the qualities I always look out for when I stay at a hotel is its proximity to towns, centres or social amenities. PrideInn Express located in Nyali, Mombasa, impressed me in this department. I’ve stayed in other hotels in the same area and they are so far from “civility” that one is often forced to take a cab, Tuk Tuk or the the noisy Mombasa public vehicles. I immediately felt calm and relaxed when I stepped into the hotel. Perhaps its serenity and the breeze from the beach had something to do with it. The exterior white finish of the building, built in a semi-circle style around a swimming pool, is very appealing. MAKUTI-THATCHED The hotel is small and homely with 26 rooms set around a large swimming pool, which means all rooms have a pool view. It has only two floors with four of the rooms at the top being cottages. They are makuti-thatched . I had a standard room on the ground floor which was roomy, and seemed to be well thought out for a family suite. On one end is a family room with a TV, and at one corner is a kitchenette and numerous drawers. The bathroom is at the middle and on the other end is the bedroom. Having spent the day at a wedding, I stepped in the shower right after I got to the hotel. The shower took eons to heat up and the water is too salty though it surprisingly lathers easily. Supper was served at the hotel’s restaurant. You could have it delivered to the room for an extra Sh200. The hotel patron was however gracious enough to bring it up in the room for us-he couldn’t let us carry the food for ourselves to the room. I had samaki wa Mombasawhich was pan-fried Swahili marinated fish cooked in coconut cream and Ugali. My partner had grilled boneless chicken and wedges which tasted as good as it looked. POOL BREAKFAST The glorious breakfast is often served next to the pool giving the customers a good view as they eat. I had cereals and a sausage, arrow roots and an egg for breakfast. The hotel service was outstanding. From the lady who was at the check-in, to the one who took the bags to the room. I bumped into the general manager John Yegon as he chatted patrons as they checked out of the hotel enquiring on how the service was. The hotel is fairly priced for the upmarket Nyali neighbourhood. A standard room is Sh5500 for bed and breakfast. When using public means from Mombasa town, alight at the Nyali Mall and take a right turn and walk for about five minutes to the hotel. An Uber from the airport to the hotel will cost you around Sh800. For the sandy beach lovers, it is a ten-minute walk to the ocean. For three-star hotel, it is a steal. A recommendation for any budget traveller to Nyali who is either on business or leisure.  