The possibility that Gor Mahia could secure an unprecedented 17th league title gives Saturday’s “Mashemeji Derby” some extra spice even as both teams fight for the usual bragging rights at the Moi International Sports Center in Kasarani. The thought of watching their cross-town rivals get the champions’ crown again is an experience the big cats would rather avoid, especially given the fact that it has been 20 long years since they last won the league title. However, this same scenario provides special excitement to the “Green Army” who have in recent times routinely won the local title with matches to spare, but hardly ever before their arch rivals. Triumph for Gor on Saturday will take them to an unassailable 71 points, which will see them become back-to-back SportPesa Premier League champions with a record 17 accolades to their name. This alone is bound to give K’Ogalo the extra motivation they need to beat the old enemy, although their form has been shaky lately owing perhaps to a fixture glut that has seen them play a match every three days in the last three weeks. The green and white side of the equation lost 2-1 to lowly Bandari a fortnight ago in Mombasa, before succumbing to a debilitating 2-1 home loss to Rwanda’s Rayon Sport last weekend in a Caf Confederation Cup group match last weekend. Ingwe, on the other hand, are on a good trajectory having blown hot and old throughout the season, and come to today’s match on the back of a four-match winning streak. Ingwe coach Rodolfo Zapata, who is chasing his first win against Gor since being hired in April, has already acknowledged Gor’s presence as premier league champions, but he says his least desire is to see their coronation happen before his eyes. “Gor has fostered continuity and consistency, but here we invest in young players so I believe Leopards will fight for the league and compete at international level in the near future. “Everybody obviously wants to win. I also want to win regardless of whom we play against so the trick is to find a way to so it on Saturday,” he said. The Argentine coach will be forced by injury to do without the services of Robinson Kamura, Salim ‘Shittu’ Abdalla, Moses Mburu and Marvin Nabwire while the team's top scorer Ezekiel Odera is suspended. Michael Kibwage and Christopher Oruchum will, therefore, stand in central defence for Ingwe as Whyvonne Isuza and Nigerian Orotomal lead the hunt for goals. Apart from left back Godfrey Walusimbi and striker Meddie Kagere, who have since left the club, Gor will also be missing injured strikers Ephrem Guikan and Jacques Tuyisenge. For Kerr, however, it is the left back and goalkeeping positions that are more problematic. First and second choice goalkeepers Boniface Oluoch and Shabaan Odhoji are both struggling with form, a situation that left Kerr with no option but to field third-choice custodian Fredrick Odhiambo who put up an impressive shift in their 3-0 win over Sofapaka on Tuesday. “We asked for this match to be postponed so that we can focus on preparing for our next CAF Confederation Cup match, but that wasn’t possible so now we have no choice but to give our best and win this match. We cannot disappoint our fans,” said Gor captain Harun Shakava.   Gor treasurer Sally Bolo on Friday confirmed that the head of state had bought air tickets.