Transport in Lamu Old Town has been paralysed for hours after boda boda riders protested a move to bar them from accessing the town. A few days ago, the county government of Lamu announced that all boda boda riders who will be found operating inside the Old Town will be arrested and charged. The move is aimed at preserving the town which, is listed as a Unesco world heritage site. But there have been concerns over the rising trends of westernisation in terms of architecture, dressing and trading that have attracted the concerns of conservationists who feel the situation may result into the town being delisted as a heritage site. BOOMING BUSINESS The most recent is the booming boda boda business which has been taking place right at the heart of the Old Town, bringing to a confusing halt to the only traditional means of transport allowed in the town – donkeys. A meeting convened by the county government in collaboration with stakeholders from the departments of Tourism, Trade and Culture, recently agreed that minimising and restricting boda boda operations in the Lamu Archipelago would serve to preserve the Old Town, while at the same time allowing the riders to pursue their livelihoods. The town currently hosts at least 150 boda boda riders. DEMONSTRATION On Tuesday, the riders brought businesses in the town to standstill after they held a huge demonstration against the new directive, especially the ban on accessing Shella Town which is far away from Lamu Old Town. The more than 100 boda boda riders downed their tools, forcing locals and visitors to go to their destinations without the leisure of the motorbikes as has become the norm. The boda bodas convened at the Duduvilla where they closed the Lamu-Shella road using their motorbikes. Their spokesman, Mohamed Badi argued that the move to ban the boda bodas from accessing Shella is meant to oppress them and put them out of business. The new directive requires that all boda bodas operate only on the outskirts of the Lamu Old Town and stay out of the heart of the heritage town. Mr Badi decried the move to also ban them from operating inside the Shella Beach town. FRUSTRATIONS He accused a senior security official in the county of colluding with a section of tourists residing in Shella to frustrate them and stop them from accessing the town to do their business. He said in as much as they have already heeded the new directive barring them from entering the Old Town for the sake of heritage conservation, they are opposed to being barred from freely operating on the outskirts of the town. Mr Badi said the move will kill business since Lamu and Shella are the only towns on the island and that barring them from accessing the two means they will have nowhere to pick or drop their passengers. He said the move also contravenes a previous agreement between them and the county government. “We are very unhappy with some senior county askaris who are busy frustrating us. They told us to stay on the outskirts and that includes Shella. Now they tell us we can’t even access Shella too. That’s not what we agreed on initially. We won’t let this matter rest until they allow us to do business,” said Mr Badi. It took the intervention of police officers on the island, who engaged the riders for over three hours, for the standoff to be resolved.  