The vetting of all Kenya Bureau of Standards (Kebs) employees will begin in two weeks, as the government seeks to protect Kenyans from dangerous commodities infiltrating the market. Trade and Industry Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya said the ministry will also restructure the agency and hire several employees to redefine conflicting roles and sack employees found to have abetted the circulation of counterfeit, contraband and substandard goods. Mr Munya said the ministry will review the structure of regulatory agencies to ensure that they are efficient, and acknowledged that some are weak and need an overhaul of their technological and human resources to ensure that they function effectively. CONSIGNMENTS “We have discovered several weaknesses because some of the products that have passed through these institutions did not meet the required standards,” he Speaking when he released the status update on sugar, edible oils, rice and fertiliser imports, Mr Munya said Kebs and the National Environmental Management Authority (Nema) will destroy all products that do not meet the quality standards. “We are processing the immediate destruction of all the consignments of seized sugar that have failed the Kebs quality tests, at the owners’ cost,” Mr Munya said. But he denied that it contained mercury, lead, arsenic and copper. AUTHORISATION The Government has seized 397,000 bags of sugar, 484 containers of edible oils, and 361 containers of fertiliser that failed the Kebs tests. “A total of 1,717,334 bags of sugar have been seized by the multi-agency team and a total of 354,628 bags met the standards,” he said, adding that the rest belonged to companies that had prior authorisation to import of sugar, with the clear intention of processing the sugar further. “The sugar was seized either aboard trucks during transportation to factories or in premises where it was clear that it was not up for sale. In addition, the bags had labels warning that the sugar was not meant for direct consumption,” the CS said. APPLICATIONS He said 763 containers of edible oil had been seized from different points of entry, only 161 of which met the relevant standards. Another 118 containers are still undergoing tests, while 484 were rejected. There also were plans to have Kebs and Public Health department test the sugar after reprocessing to confirm that the stipulated standards have been met before a firm is allowed to sell lit. On fertilisers, the CS revealed that 361 containers of the 1,125 seized had failed the Kebs quality tests, while only 170 have been released to the owners. The rest are pending completion of tests. To curb illegal imports, Kebs has come up with unique consignment reference numbers for importers, for which it has received 2,331 applications.   Eight managers and firm say their contract has never been set aside by the contracting parties.