National Assembly speaker Justin Muturi has ruled that the House will not reconsider the controversial sugar report. The National Assembly shot down a report, on contraband sugar smuggled into the country, which was tabled by a joint committee led by Kieni MP Kanini Kega earlier this month.. The Speaker's rulingnow puts to an end the debate to have the House reconsider the report or fresh investigations conducted. Mr Muturi has also directed the House committee on Powers and Privileges, which he chairs, to investigate allegations of rampant bribery among the MPs that saw the report rejected. Consequently, the speaker ruled that MPs Didmus Barasa (Kimilili) and Onyango K’oyoo (Muhoroni), who went on record accusing their colleagues of open bribery in the corridors of parliament on the material day, be persons of interests. Interestingly, the MPs are members of the privileges committee and will henceforth recuse themselves from the investigations since they will be called by the committee to adduce evidence. On August 9, 2018, the House threw away the report by the joint committees on Agriculture and Livestock and that on Trade, Industry and Cooperatives co-chaired by Mandera South MP Adan Ali and his Kieni colleague Kanini Kega. The joint committee had recommended that Treasury Cabinet secretary Henry Rotich and his then Industrialization colleague Adan Mohamed, now at the East African Community docket, be investigated for the importation of the poisonous sugar. Yesterday Mr Muturi ruled that he will not allow any motion asking the House to rescind its decision. “As your Speaker I will not allow this as doing so will offend the provisions of Standing Order 49 since the discretion of the Speaker to grant leave on such motions does not extend to a report of a committee which has been adopted or rejected by way of a conscious vote,” Mr Muturi ruled. MPs Anthony Oluoch (Mathare) and Caleb Amisi (Saboti) had placed a request for the establishment of a select committee to inquire into the spent matter of the alleged importation of contaminated sugar. This came as Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi requested for the reconsideration of the negative report saying the issue was a matter of life and death to Kenyans as it touches on the health of Kenyans. “The question one would ask is, what would the proposed select committee alter in terms of substance of the rejected report that would move the House to vote differently?” he posed. He said that he has no information as to whether there has emerged new evidence that, if considered by a committee of this House, would vary the substance of the earlier report. Mr Muturi further noted that when a rejected question has to be reconsidered, sufficient variation would have to be made, not only from the form but also from the substance of the rejected question, so as to make the second question a new question. According to the speaker, none of the claims submitted to his office by the members who sought leave to rescind the decision in question suggested the possibility of new evidence that would alter the substance of the negative report and qualify it for reconsideration in a new form. “I must emphasise it is a principle of law, which is also applicable to Parliament in the carrying out its quasi - judicial function, that once a House rejects a Report of a Committee, that decision effectively renders the relevant committee functus officio upon the report being rejected by the House.” The speaker ruled that it would be an exercise in futility attempts to reintroduce the same matter, be it through the same committee, a select committee or by way of a public petition, as long the parameters remain similar to those of the rejected report.   Junet calls for new investigations by DCI and other agencies into the sugar saga.