A Nairobi-based businessman who is arrested for allegedly attempting to bribe Governor Mike Sonko has been released on bail. A Mombasa court freed Praful Kumar on a cash bail of Sh500,000  or Sh1million bond with one surety of a similar amount. While releasing the suspect on bond, Mombasa Senior Principal Magistrate Henry Nyakweba said prosecution failed to provide compelling reasons to deny the suspect bond. PROBE He dismissed claims by the prosecution that the accused will interfere with investigations, a flight risk and that detectives were still investigating his wealth and how he acquired them. Mr Nyakweba also dismissed State’s argument that the suspect’s place of abode was not known and that the charges he is facing are serious and that attract a jail term of up to 10 years and with a fine of Sh5million if convicted. “The court has not been told where the CCTV footage is being analysed and how the suspect will interfere with the said analysis. One would wonder how an ordinary Kenyan would jeopardise investigations being conducted in a government installation,” he said “The suspect was charged under the bribery Act therefore the issue of the suspect’s assets being investigated does not arise. In addition, there is no provision that the accused must be incarcerated pending conclusion of investigations,” he added The magistrate said that the law will take its course should the suspect interfere with investigations. Mr Kumar denied offering a Sh5million bribe to the Nairobi governor to approve and continue building Grand Monar Hotel in Gigiri. The suspect was also charged with a second and third count of offering Sh2 million to the governor for approval of the construction of the building. The prosecution said the suspect committed the offence on August 20 at a hotel in Kanamai, Kilifi County. The prosecution had applied to have the suspect locked up in custody pending conclusion of investigations. State Counsel Eugene Wangila had opposed the release of the accused on grounds that investigators were still compiling more details about the suspect. Mr Wangila stated that the prosecution is yet to be furnished with the suspect's travel documents, details of his place of abode, registered phone numbers, his assets both in the country and outside before he is granted bail. “Charges facing the suspect are very serious, we can’t wish them away and assume he is not a flight risk. We are yet to be furnished with the suspect’s documents so that the prosecution can be comfortable even if he is granted bail,” Mr Wangila said.   Kumar was seeking approval of Grand Monar Hotel in Gigiri, Nairobi, which is under construction.