On Saturday, Deputy President (DP) William Ruto was expected to attend two functions in Murang’a County. However, his decision to skip one has triggered a fight among local MPs, who want to take credit for his tours in the region. The DP was expected to grace a fundraiser at Kiairathe Secondary School, only that the area MP Muturi Kigano was not aware. At 11am news went round that the DP was accompanying President Uhuru Kenyatta to the burial of ex-Kenya Defense Force deputy chief Lt-Gen Joseph Kasaon’s wife and he would be late. Eventually, he never showed up and instead asked Governor Mwangi Wa Iria to represent him. At 5:45 pm his chopper landed at Gaturi for the homecoming of Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro, where at least 25 MPs were in attendance. CONFUSION Following the confusion that surrounded the DP’s tour on Saturday, a section of Murang’a leaders have now accused Senator Irungu Kang’ata of ‘owning’ Mr Ruto and secluding them in his tours. Mr Kang’ata is said to have invited the DP for the school fundraiser without involving the area MP. Mr Kigano (Kangema MP), castigated the senator, accusing him of sidelining him on the fundraiser. The MP said he only knew that the DP was to visit his constituency after his Mathioya counterpart Peter Kimari asked him whether he had received an invitation card to attend an event in his own backyard. “It is unfortunate that leaders were not aware that the DP was to visit Kangema. I discovered his coming after Mr Kimari inquired whether I was invited to attend the fundraiser despite this area being under me” Mr Kigano said. OWN MR RUTO He warned that if the trend of ‘trying to own Mr Ruto’ continued, the move would have far reaching consequences and could even cost Mr Ruto’s presidential bid in 2022. Nyeri Senator Ephraim Maina accused local leaders of playing political games in events attended by any of the two national leaders. “I see it as a natural thing in political games. Not for the benefit of the deputy president. It is dynamics of competition,” said Mr Maina. He called on the regional political leaders to shun the succession politics and choose to work on the community’s unity and development. DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS “As Mt Kenya people, we must choose between two things; 2022 politics or development of our region,” observed Mr Maina. Mr Wa Iria accused Mr Kang’ata of trying to outshine other leaders by taking the glory over development projects initiated by national government. “It’s very bad for Mr Kang’ata to try to outshine his fellow leaders; we should work together as a team and deliver to the electorate,” he said. Mr Ruto has cancelled his visit to Kangema twice.   Tabulations show the DP has donated at least Sh60 million at harambees in the past six months.