Finalists in the Kenya National Music Festival will be on stage Thursday for the gala event at Dedan Kimathi University. The best teams, which have been picked during the event that has been held at the venue for the last two weeks, will showcase their skills to the audience. The best items will be presented before President Uhuru Kenyatta at Sagana State Lodge on Friday. On Wednesday, performers in the dance, music, public elocution and poetry classes performed very well in their bid to qualify for the gala concert and the State Concert, which many performers aim for. CATEGORIES Among the main categories in the festival yesterday was a special own composition choral verse on the role of teachers in promoting ethical culture and values among students. The category, which attracted 14 entries was sponsored by the Teachers Service Commission. The poems emphasised the need for teachers not to profile children, keep time when attending classes, not go to school drunk and to desist from sexually abusing students. Ironically, in a bid to censure their colleagues, all the verses were composed by teachers. Among the performers in this class were Maryhill Girls High School, Ganze, Masinga, Mukumu and Karima Girls. GOLDEN OLDIES Kuoyo Kochia, Kariobangi, Kambeni, Gachika Secondary and Precious Blood Riruta Girls also performed. Others were Utumishi Academy, Mirogi Girls, Our Lady of Assumption, Tawas Girls and Mabaga Girls. In the African folk songs from the Kipsigis, Nandi, Keiyo and Sabaot dances, schools from the Rift Valley unsurprisingly dominated. This was with the exception of Nairobi's Ruthimitu Girls, which presented a very well-choreographed dance. The others, most from Rift Valley Region, were Chelilis Girls, St John's Sigowet, Jecinta Girls, Laboret Girls, Our Lady of Glory, Apostolic Camel and Mutito Boys. The class which attracted the biggest audience and applause, however, was the zilizopendwa (golden oldies) category.   New category seeks to create awareness and prepare students for the future job market.