National Assembly Majority Leader Adan Duale on Tuesday came under heavy criticism from Rift Valley leaders for asking MPs to reject Ms Sarah Serem’s nomination as Kenya’s ambassador to China. The leaders said Mr Duale is undermining President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. Soy MP Caleb Kositany, said lawmakers should only stick to Chapter Six of the Constitution when vetting Ms Serem and others. “The National Assembly is not a House for vendetta. Parliament should stick to the law when determining her suitability as s diplomat,” Mr Kositany told the Nation by phone. The MP added that President Kenyatta made the right decision in naming Ms Serem an ambassador. “While as the Salaries and Remuneration Commission chairperson, Ms Serem did nothing outside her mandate and her appointment should be approved,” he added. INDEPENDENT Baringo Woman Representative Gladwell Cheruiyot said MPs should be independent when vetting Ms Serem. “Mr Duale is entitled to his opinions but lawmakers should not act as a lynch mob,” Ms Cheruiyot said. Some said Mr Duale should face disciplinary action for publicly opposing the President’s appointments. “Using Parliament so settle personal scores amounts to intimidation. Vetting should look at an individual’s credentials and suitability for the job,” Mr Philip Chebunet, a political commentator, said. In a petition top the National Assembly Committee on Powers and Privileges, Mr Chebunet said the decision by Mr Duale to push MPs to oppose the appointment of Ms Serem was likely to damage the reputation of the assembly. REJECT SEREM'S NOMINATION “How can the leader of government business in the National Assembly go against the very government? He must be a mole,” Mr Chebunet, a resident of Moiben, said. While addressing the National Assembly on Thursday, Mr Duale asked members of the National Security, Defence and Foreign Relations Committee to reject Ms Serem’s nomination, “because she slashed lawmakers’ salaries and allowances”. The Garissa Town MP said the vetting would be a perfect opportunity for lawmakers to get back at Ms Serem. Council of Imams and Preachers of Kenya North Rift branch cautioned MPs against using vetting as a tool for revenge. VETTING “Vetting should be free and fair. It should not be pegged on political differences. Let MPs focus on the ability of Ms Serem to perform her duties,” CIPK North Rift chairman Sheikh Abubakar Bini said. Kesses MP Swarup Mishra and his Moiben counterpart Silas Tiren echoed the sentiments. “Whatever happened when she headed SRC was for the good of the country,” Dr Mishra said by phone. Like other leaders, Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei said lawmakers  should use merit when vetting Ms Serem. Reported by Barnabas Bii, Wycliffe Kipsang and Onyango K’Onyango.   President Kenyatta makes changes in his Cabinet and diplomatic service.