Emurua Dikirr MP Johana Ngeno, 45, will tie the knot with his long time fiancée Nayianoi Ntutu today. In a 45-minute video clip, the lawmaker invited Kenyans to his wedding at Emurua Dikirr Secondary School grounds. The reception will be at the same venue. The two in the video say they would prefer “envelop gifts”. CULTURE Mr Ngeno, however, does not comment about the gifts and the wedding in general. Ms Nayianoi is the daughter of Mr Livingstone ole Ntutu, the step brother of former Narok Senator Stephen ole Ntutu and Chief Administrative Secretary in the Interior Ministry Patrick ole Ntutu. Trans Mara Kipsigis Council of Elders chairman Alexander Kosgei welcomed the decision by Mr Ngeno to marry. Mr Kosgei had earlier said culture was clear that a leader has to be married. OPPONENTS “Being married means one has a home and family,” Mr Kosgei said, adding that marriage ensures the continuity of the community. He said society in general respects married people. The lawmaker’s marital status has been a source of ridicule — especially from his political opponents. It also “concerned” his mother Mary Temas, who is in her 80s. “I want my son to marry so that he can give me the pleasure of seeing my grandchildren,” she once said. PRESSURE “Please marry. Or do you want to give me grandchildren when I have lost my sight?” Ms Temas added that it is her wish to see her home filled with “happy and noisy grandchildren”. The lawmaker seems to have heeded the pleas and calls from his mother and elders. “It is the constant pressure I receive from my mother that has made me marry. She keeps asking if anything is wrong I tell her to be patient,” Mr Ngeno said. CAMPAIGN “At times she makes fun of me. She asks why, as an MP, I only help other people’s children and not mine.” In a past interview, the MP said he would marry when the right time came. Mr Ngeno said though marriage was important, it was not a priority. He added that choosing to be single was personal and told off those making his status a political campaign tool. NEGOTIATIONS However, he promised to look into the issue after the August 8, 2017 General Election. In June, Mr Ngeno  formally asked for Ms Nayianoi’s hand in marriage when he led a team for dowry negotiations to her father’s home. Mr Ngeno’s team, which arrived in two helicopters and top-of-the range vehicles, comprised Energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter, MPs Oscar Sudi (Kapseret), Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills), Sabina Chege (Murang’a Woman Representative), Wilson Sossion (Nominated), Deputy President William Ruto’s aide Farouk Kibet among others.   Mr Ng’eno’s marriage proposal to a city-based lawyer, whom he prefers not to name at the moment, has been accepted.