The search for the three missing fishermen in Lamu County has entered the fourth day. The mission is being hindered by strong winds and tides in the Indian Ocean at Kiwayu area in Lamu East. Speaking to the Nation on Sunday, Lamu County Transport Manager Haji Mahmoud said no single body has been recovered and called for patience as the operation continues. Four fishermen from Kizingitini village were heading to the high seas in Kiwayu and Ndau to fish on Thursday when their boat christened ‘Subira’ was overpowered by strong winds and tides and capsized throwing all the occupants into the ocean. Only one fisherman, Mr Omar Shali, swam to safety and alerted the Kiwayu chief. The missing fishermen have been identified as Athman Ali Gogo, Balali Shali and Huri Kale Shebwana. Mr Mahmoud said a search team comprised of Lamu County government’s search and rescue department, Kenya Maritime Authority, marine police and local divers were focusing their efforts on the Kiwayu deep and open seas. CORAL REEF Emerging details seem to indicate the boat may have hit a coral reef, splitting into two on impact and that the four occupants did not have life jackets on at the time of the accident. Mr Mahmoud called on the Lamu fishermen and seamen to ensure they wear life jackets and also equip themselves with water proof phone bags and other buoyancy aids like rings. “If you wear a lifejacket, it will be easy for you to swim along as you wait for rescue. It’s also better that our fishermen carry with them their phones put in water proof phone bags so that they can call once they are involved in accidents at sea. Buoyancy rings can also assist during marine tragedies,” said Mr Mahmoud. He also reminded fishermen in the region to always keep in touch with their respective Beach Management Units (BMUs) and county fishing offices while at sea for prompt interventions. Meanwhile, Lamu County Women Representative Ruweida Obbo has met the families and relatives of the three missing fishermen at Kizingitini village to console them. She said the National Government Affirmative Action Funds’ speed boat has already been released by her office to assist in the search.   Fishing boat capsized with four on board but one fisherman swam to safety and reported the incident.