Kenya Simbas head coach Ian Snook will on Thursday name a provisional squad of 35 players to prepare for the Repechage, the last qualifying tournament for 2019 Rugby World Cup due November 11 to 23 in Marseille, France. At the same time, Snook’s deputy Murray Roulston, who had resigned in June over unpaid salary, is expected to rejoin the team next month. Snook, who is currently on holiday break in New Zealand, is expected in the country towards the end of September alongside fellow countryman Roulston. The Simbas will launch their quest against Canada on November 11, before meeting Hong Kong on November 17. The Simbas will wrap up their campaign against Germany on November 23. Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) Director of Rugby Thomas Odundo disclosed that deputy coach Dominique Habimana and Charles Ngovi will continue to train the team which resumes training on Monday before the arrival of Snook. Odundo said besides exploring the possibilities of the Simbas training in South Africa ahead of Repechage, they have written to World Rugby to facilitate some build up matches for the Simbas. The Simbas missed out on direct qualification for Japan after they lost 53-28 loss away to eventual qualifiers Namibia. That saw them finish second overall in the Africa qualifying round that doubled up as the Rugby Africa Gold Cup. The winning team at the Repechage, that will be played on a round-robin basis, will join defending champions New Zealand, South Africa, Italy and Namibia in Pool “B” at next year's rugby showpiece. Kenya have been seeded third in Repechage based on their current global ranking of 28, while Hong Kong, ranked 21st globally, are top seeds with Canada (23) seeded second and Germany (29) seeded fourth. Canada headed to Repechage after failing to qualify from the Americas region, while Germany fell to Samoa in a play-off. Hong Kong qualified for the Repechage after they beat Cook Islands in another play-off. Odundo said they will be glad to welcome back Roulston for continuity purpose. “Bringing in someone new to the system will take long to settle. We want someone who is familiar with what we have been trying to achieve,” said Odundo, adding that they have been in talks with Roulston to try and solve the impasse that occurred. Team manager Wangila Simiyu said that good preparations will be the key to the Simbas' success in Marseille. “Selection of the right players, good facilities and motivation of players are what we require to succeed,” said Wangila.  