Two factions of the ruling Jubilee Party are battling for control of the party ahead of its much-awaited retreat whose outcome will have a significant effect on the 2022 succession race. The jostling has been presented as pitting elected politicians against current officials of the party who did not vie for any elective posts in the 2017 General Election. However, it is an open secret that it is between those who insist President Uhuru Kenyatta must back his deputy, Mr William Ruto, in the 2022 polls and those who argue that Mr Kenyatta has no such obligation. Most of the elected leaders seeking to take up party positions are perceived to be supporters of the Deputy President. Consequently, Mr Kenyatta’s camp fears that allowing them to take over the party will make the president a lame duck. STATE VISIT The President’s men say he is keen to remain in charge until the last minute to discharge his legacy projects, an untenable goal, they believe, if he will not be in charge of the politics. The elected leaders accuse non-elected individuals in control of the party of being out of touch with the people. Yet in a counter-strategy and in what appears to be backed up by the deep State, there is a decision to keep party positions among men and women who are not sitting in Parliament for strategic reasons. Initially planned for next weekend, the retreat has been put on hold until the President, also the party leader, returns from China. “We have shared our programme with the President. It is dependent on his diary,” secretary-general Raphael Tuju said. Mr Kenyatta will be in Beijing for two days for the annual China-Africa co-operation summit starting on September 3. He is currently in the United States for a bilateral meeting with President Donald Trump. IMPLOSION Notably, those angling for slots accuse current office holders of riding roughshod over party members. The camp that wins will vanquish the other in what could also change the country’s political architecture. Mr Tuju admits that elections are on the cards. “We will also be talking about programmes and timelines for our party elections, what is required for us to conduct the elections and establishment of branches across the country within the context of our constitution and registrar of political parties.” If the agitation continues unchecked, the party could implode under the weight of internal bickering. Elected leaders like Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria say there is urgent need to bring them on board for the party to go far. “Even the most lethal warhead requires a strong missile to deliver it. In the case of the Big Four, a strong Jubilee is that missile. "Yet we are the only major political party with no space for politicians. John Mbadi (ODM), Prof Kivutha Kibwana (Wiper), Bonny Khalwale and Chris Wamalwa (Ford Kenya) are all party chairmen and active politicians. "Time has come for Jubilee to open up space for political participation. Party elections are long overdue,” Mr Kuria said early in the week, kicking up a political storm. TANGATANGA CREW The faction opposed to elected leaders assuming party positions reckons that it would amount to conflict of interest. “Elected leaders already have enough on their plates in terms of House business and will likely have divided attention,” a high ranking member said. Mr Kuria, Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wa and Kiharu’s Ndindi Nyoro are among the most vocal leaders vying for control of the party. They all happen to be Mr Ruto’s close allies. Another sticking point likely to come up at the retreat is the utterances of party officials like vice chairman David Murathe, whom they accuse of openly opposing Mr Ruto. Last week, Mr Murathe fired a salvo at the Tangatanga team, a group of Jubilee politicians supporting Mr Ruto’s presidential bid. “I want to tell Moses (Moses Kuria) and his Tangatanga crew, they are spoiling for the DP. "The Constitution of Kenya talks of 50 per cent+1 votes, be careful so that you do not chase away the requisite +1 vote. When did the President say he does not support his deputy yet you guys are going around preaching despondency?” he posed. AGENDA The fact that the party has not held a parliamentary group meeting since February when it convened a poorly attended get-together has worsened internal suspicions. So glaring has the internal rift become that Garissa Township MP Aden Duale, the Majority Leader in the National Assembly and an ally to the DP, recently threatened to shoot down a government nominee, Ms Sarah Serem, for an ambassadorial position in the House. Ms Serem’s nomination has since been approved and will be reporting in Beijing. The battle for control has been more pronounced in Central Kenya, Mr Kenyatta’s backyard. If not resolved, it may drown the President’s commitment to his legacy flagship projects of manufacturing, food security, affordable housing and universal healthcare. Mr Tuju outlined other areas of focus for the retreat such as how to deal with the widespread ethnic divide that puts the country in a state of animosity every five years during elections. This agenda will heavily borrow from the Building Bridges Initiative, the brainchild of President Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga. INDOCTRINATION Jubilee is also planning an academy where its new recruits will be indoctrinated to strengthen it. This idea is borrowed from parties such as the Communist Party of China, the Communist Party of Cuba and the African National Congress of South Africa. “We want to establish Jubilee Party leadership centre and academy. It will make it a party which is informed by ideals and a vision, which includes the Big Four as opposed to some of the pedestrian approaches that sometimes parties in this part of the world are engaged in,” Mr Tuju said. Mr Tuju said the agenda on the table is flexible to accommodate other pressing but non-listed issues that members may want ventilated. “Those are the issues before us and any other business which may arise from the floor,” he said. Even as Mr Tuju spoke, conversations with other party leaders suggested the meeting will be dominated by politics rather than policy talk.   Mr Ruto called for an end to tribal politics and supported the building of bridges.