The family of the late former Harambee Stars coach Sammy Nyongesa is appealing to the football fraternity to help clear an outstanding hospital bill. According to Nyongesa's son, former Harambee Stars striker Mike Baraza, the family is in need of Sh211,000 to offset the hospital bill. Nyongesa, a founder of Nakuru Youth Olympic in 1975, died last week at a Nakuru hospital. Speaking to the Nation Sport on Thursday, Baraza, who played for Ulinzi Stars and AFC Leopards, said that his late father will be buried at his Ngata home on the outskirts of Nakuru town on September 7. “ As a family we have not cleared the hospital bill amounting to Sh211,000, besides other overhead costs and I appeal the football lovers in Kenya to help us give our dad a befitting send off,” said Baraza. He said Nyongesa was a national hero, who nurtured many football stars, who have carried the national flag high in many international and local assignments. “This is his last journey on earth and since the work of his hands is visible, our only request to football lovers is to help us shoulder the bill, “ said Baraza. Meanwhile, football lovers in Nakuru and other parts of the country continued to pay glowing tribute to the fallen tactician. Former national volleyball coach Cleophas Nyongesa described the late Nyongesa as a “football hero", whose coaching and mentoring skills had no equal. “My namesake was just in a class of his own. He was a tactician who knew his job and was very passionate about it,” said the retired Nyongesa via phone from his Bungoma home. Former Kenya Farmers Association (KFA) player Patrick Asiye describe the late Nyongesa as a “great football coach" whose football exploits helped him earn a daily living. “ I played for KFA, where I was employed and this was a turning point in my football career,” said Asiye. Former Makolanders FC player Knight Lugalia recalled the good old days when he benefited from coach Nyongesa’s coaching skills. “ I’m a retired player and coach and what I achieved was as a result of valuable football tips from him hat helped me realise my football dreams’’ said Lugalia. Other former players, who eulogised Nyongesa were Boniface Muchiri and Churchill Otieno, who started their careers at Nakuru Youth Olympic Centre, a brainchild of Nyongesa. Meanwhile, former players and friends of Nyongesa are meeting daily at Afraha Stadium at 5pm for burial arrangements.  