National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has rejected a plot to amend the Constitution to bar Deputy President William Ruto from vying for the presidency in the next General Election. Through a petition to the House, Kisumu Central MP Fred Ouda also sought to have deputy governors who have served two terms blocked from succeeding their bosses in subsequent elections. Leader of Majority Aden Duale (Garissa Township) and his Minority colleague John Mbadi (Suba South) led other members in calling for dismissal of the motion, terming it frivolous. FAULT HOUSE However, the Speaker defended the MP's right to table his proposals after members unanimously opposed its tabling. “This is a matter that is weighty,” Mr Muturi said before subjecting the matter to a vote. The Speaker had initially directed that the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee consider the petition and report to the House within 60 days. Mr Ouda later addressed the media to fault the House decision, insisting that the term of the President and Deputy President is one and the same. WEIGHTY MATTERS “The election of the President and the DP are intertwined. They both derive their authority directly from the electorate and, as such, they are only eligible to hold the office of the presidency for a maximum of two five-year terms.” On similar grounds, Mr Ouda argued that the governor and deputy governor comprise one inseparable unit. “The petitioners humbly pray the National Assembly through the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee should consider the petition in view of the weighty matters canvassed and seriousness of the issues presented,” he said. AGE LIMITS Mr Duale said the petition contradicts Article 137 of the Constitution. “He is trying to say that the DP will not contest in 2022. This is a wild dream. Ruto will be on the ballot in 2022. We have important things to do. They tried to introduce age limits to bar Raila Odinga from contesting, now they are on William Ruto,” Mr Duale said. Mr Mbadi argued: “The petition is constitutional but it will just be wasting time for the committee. ODM is not scared of anyone. Ouda is working on his own. Political parties will determine people who will be on the ballot."  