The 2010 Constitution establishes Parliament primarily as a law making institution, but also as an avenue for the people’s representatives to hold other state organs responsible. With the complete separation of powers between the Legislature and the Executive, Parliament, through its committees, was mandated to summon members of the executive arm of government, grill them, and come up with findings that ought to affect how government is run. CONTRABAND SUGAR However, over the past few years, parliamentary committees have been using this authority in a manner that leaves a lot to be desired. This past week, Parliament rejected a committee report on the sugar fiasco in which contraband sugar found its way into the consumer market, leaving Cabinet Secretaries contradicting each other, with one of them even claiming that the sugar was contaminated with heavy metals. The parliamentary committees held very public hearings in which they dressed down the responsible ministers and made sensational claims about their preferred fate for these officials. CORRUPT PRACTICES When the report finally came out, it was the usual ineffectual whimper from a team clearly beholden to ‘higher powers’, making the usual recommendations for further investigations and whatnot. As usual, allegations have been made of potential uncouth behaviour including corrupt practices on the part of legislators, but as these remain unproven, they are better left as they are. Occurrences such as these leave us with many questions. The expectation of the citizen is that Parliament is the avenue for making state officers take political responsibility for malpractices that occur under their watch. Legal and criminal responsibilities are exerted in other forums, such as in courts of law. The outcome of parliamentary investigations must therefore necessarily include political action that seeks to right an insult to the people that elect the legislators. LUDICROUS PROCEEDINGS Unfortunately, many in Parliament have completely misconstrued their role, resulting in ludicrous proceedings such as some we have seen in recent times. Parliament has ‘grilled’ business owners on what was thought to be unfair business practices, instead of holding the responsible state official accountable. We have seen spectacles where private individuals, including professionals in their line of duty, have been summoned as ‘persons of interest’ in Parliament for one reason or another. One wonders what Parliament would do should it find such individuals culpable in contradiction to the state investigative agencies. INTERNAL MECHANISMS It is my opinion that Parliament’s role in holding state agencies accountable must never be gagged by any external authority. Just like the practitioners of the regulated professions would aver, operational independence and autonomy is key to the delivery of parliament’s mandate. However, parliament must have internal mechanisms that ensure that its organs do not go overboard and end up embarrassing the August House by making findings that did not require sittings in the first place. Such mechanisms would ensure that proposed committee activities would be truly fruitful and result in real political or legislative action in the interest of the common citizen. This is the only way to eliminate extant perceptions that parliamentary committees only sit for one of two reasons - to benefit from sitting allowances, or to extort those that are summoned to appear before them for one reason or another. Lukoye Atwoli is Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Dean, Moi University School of Medicine; lukoye@gmail.com  