In one of the remotest parts of Kenya, just less than 5km to the border with Uganda, a crowd has gathered under a tree, their eyes fixed on a blackboard on which their teacher is busy scribbling letters of the alphabet. The teacher then hoists the board as he shouts in the local language asking them to read aloud. In unison, they shout back. First it’s letter ‘P’, then ‘T’, ‘K’ then back to ‘A’, ‘B’ and the routine goes on. READ BIBLE The teacher, nods in satisfaction and the learners clap in joy to show they have grasped what they have learnt. This is Kasitet Adult Education Centre in Alale village in the farthest corner of West Pokot County. Crowds of adults sit under a tree each day struggling to learn how to read and write. Once they know how to count their cows and goats, how to read their children’s school report cards, how to read the Bible and how to vote, they will be happy. They are tired of being assisted to do most of these things. 300 LEARNERS Their dream is to know what a, e, i, o, u and a, b, c, d are and what they mean to their lives. The nascent adult education programme, started by the county government two months ago, has given them some hope of grasping the basics of Kiswahili and English. The programme targets improving the levels of literacy in Pokot North, one of the most undeveloped areas in the county. The Kasitet centre is not the only place where learning is happening. Others are spread across the sub-county but this is the most vibrant. On a good day, it receives close to 300 learners. When it was started in July, it attracted 100 learners but word spread quickly and the numbers grew. Here, adults, both men and women, gather everyday between 2pm and 4pm for classes. ASSIGNMENT Some come along with their goats and let them roam not far from the centre with their eyes often wandering to check if the animals are wandering too far. Women too are not left behind, some with children strapped to their backs. Breastfeeding goes on during classes. Shadrack Tebalem, 30, arrived with a small blue bag hanging on his shoulder shortly after the class had begun. He headed straight to the front of the crowd and sat on the ground, pulled out a green exercise book and a pen. He tapped a fellow learner sitting next to him and asked something. He then slowly began to write in his book. Having arrived late, he did know what the assignment was. Soon he was raising his hand to signal to the teacher that he had answered his question. “I didn’t know anything at all. I didn’t even know how to write my name. But I can do it now. I am so happy,” Tebalem, once a rustler, said after the class. He spoke through an interpreter. He has been attending the sessions since they commenced in July. MOBILE PHONE “You do not know how shameful it is to look for people to write for you something, it is even more shameful to ask them to read it for you. You never know whether they are writing or reading the right thing,” he said. For his commitment, he has been appointed the leader of the group. “We are so happy that someone has finally thought about us. There is no way I could miss this programme,” he added. He asked the county to build a classroom for them saying they do not have essential amenities like latrines. Veronica Chesarbei, 45, said she had been pushed to learn so that she could know how to use her mobile phone. She wants to know how to load her airtime saying people have been taking advantage of her illiteracy. “I always ask them to key in for me but they are always stealing from me. This cannot go on and I am ready to learn so that I can do it for myself,” the mother of five said. LIVELIHOOD She asked fellow women to enrol in the programme saying it was time to know the number of cows and goats in their homesteads. “Our husbands cannot just sell them anyhow anymore because we will know how to count them and we will know how much they go for,” said Chesarbei. Monica Cherakabel, 60, said she had been inspired by her grandchildren who are in school. She said she just needed to know the basics. “I want to know how to write and read so that when someone steals from me I know how to write a police statement,” she said, challenging younger women to make sure they joined the programme. “I am old now. If I know how to write, I will be happy.” Mr Moses Remoi, the teacher, said the job was more of a hobby than a source of livelihood. CHALLENGING He was drafted into the programme after being trained by the county last June. After the training in Kapenguria, he went home and started the centre asking those who joined him to spread the word. “I did not expect this number of people. I registered more than 100 initially but the number has been going up almost every day. We have only done it for a month and we have close to 300 people here,” said Remoi. With the number going up and being the only teacher, the task has become challenging. “I really want to ask the county to give us more teachers. I am doing my best but even the learners know I cannot handle them alone. If we get two more teachers, I will be happy,” he said. COMMITMENT He conducts his classes between 2pm and 4pm every day and focuses on vowels, consonants, numbers and syllables. “We are heading in the right direction. The commitment is amazing. This is my village and when I see this happening I am so happy,” he said. West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo said fighting illiteracy is one of his priorities. “I want to leave a good legacy when I leave office. I want to ensure almost all people know how to read and write despite their age,” he said. County Education Executive Christine Apokoreng said the payment for the adult education teachers was being processed and they will soon receive it. Those who completed secondary school, will be paid Sh8,000 a month.  