Q: I am having trouble teaching my boyfriend of eight months my ‘love language’. He thinks buying me gifts is all I need to be happy, but I want him to spend time with me, and support me with my career and my advanced studies. I noticed that he does not think time spent is equal to gifts bought, so he is always with his boys and telling me he bought me things because he is thinking of me – but really, how I know he is thinking of me is by dedicating time to me! How do I make him understand once and for all before I pull out my hair and leave him?  READERS' REPLY: The way forward is to let your boyfriend know that you would like him to create adequate time for you and support your endeavours. This can only be done through open communication. Likewise, it is good to accompany him as he socialises with his friends. You also need to create time for him away from the books so that you can enjoy each other’s company without distractions. Please let him understand that you love the gifts he gives you but you also enjoy his company. Kindly exercise patience as you work out your relationship. John Wambugu, via email.  There is no way other than to communicate your needs to your boyfriend. Bear in mind that it has only been eight months and you are still learning how to be with each other. A man who genuinely loves you will work hard to make you happy – but first he has to know what makes you happy. You seem to indicate that you have already had this discussion. Well, sit down with him one more time and rather than throwing a tantrum, gently and lovingly explain to him why you like certain things, and how they make you feel. Once he understands the ‘why’, I think it will be easier to handle. But if he still doesn’t get it, then consider that you two are incompatible and that you may have to break up and find someone who suits you better. Francine O, via email.   The key to making a man change his behaviour is to reward the good and ignore the bad. If he does something you like even once, be generous with your praise; he will do it again if he realizes it makes you happy. And keep doing things this way. Remember, no one comes into a relationship knowing anything about the other person – we learn each other as we go along. All the best! Juma James, via email.   EXPERT ADVICE Maurice Matheka, a relationship counsellor answers: I believe that every couple should do their best to know each other and accommodate one another in whatever way possible. But I do not believe that you can teach a partner who does not understand or want to understand the significance of your love language, neither are they obligated to get it. It should always come from one’s interest to explore the other’s desires within your relationship parameters. I recommend that you sit him down one last time and break down the kind of affection you need from him so that he can also make a choice because he may not be in the same relationship frame as yourself. It has to be a journey he is willing to take with you, it can never be forced.   *** NEXT WEEK’S DILEMMA My husband of one year just told me that he just found out that his ex-girlfriend fell pregnant when they were together, and that she never told him. They split up early in the pregnancy so he only just found out that he has a three-year-old child with her. He wants to be in the child’s life, but I am unsure if I will be comfortable with it. We don’t have any children yet and I was not ready to be a mother until a few years after we had lived together. Should I tell him that I don’t like the idea? Please advise.   We have spent most of our time together; I don’t know how I will survive.