Migori bagged the women’s football title at the inaugural County Assemblies Sports Association (CASA) games festival at Kasarani in Nairobi on Friday as the shame of teams chasing referees reared its ugly head after Trans Nzoia men’s team attacked a referee in a quarterfinal match won by Vihiga 1-0. In the women’s decider, Migori and Kajiado both had several good chances to win the match in normal time, but none was able to find the back of the net. During the post-match penalties, Sandra Mario, Stella Naneu, Grace Naruai and Immaculate Parseina beat Margaret Runji in the Migori goal. Runji punched out penalties from Emily Samante and goalkeeper Rebecca Supeyo, who had saved two Migori penalties. Faith Omolo scored Migori’s winning penalty. In a post-match interview, Migori coach David Simiyu said he expected to win, but admitted it was a tough match. Defender Emma Ogutu was pleased with Migori’s success, which came after the side swept aside Tharaka Nithi 5-0 in the semi-final and Turkana 2-0 in the group stage. Kajiado coach Mike Odhiambo attributed the loss to lack of enough time to train. “The match was competitive. My team was tactically superior, but it is evident we didn’t get enough time to train before the tournament. We hope to come back next stronger and better than this year,” said Odhiambo. The women’s final was played after Trans Nzoia refused to return to the field for the second half of the men’s quarterfinal accusing Vihiga of fielding ineligible players at around 10am. The appeals committee made the decision for the match to continue minutes before 3pm. Vihiga, who had scored in the first half, held on to their lead to win the match at the outdoor facility at Kasarani. Hell broke lose after the referee blew the final whistle as Trans Nzoia bayed for his blood. He ran for dear life and hid in the VIP room, where they followed him, but were not able to reach him. Cases of ineligible fielding were rife in other disciplines such as netball, volleyball and even athletics. Most of the cases caused delays. The games were supposed to end Fridauy, but matches from quarterfinal stage were still being played late evening. In other results, Migori hit Nakuru 3-2 as Uasin Gishu stunned hosts Nairobi 2-0 in men’s volleyball semi-finals. Busia thumped Kericho 18-14 in netball quarterfinals, with Uasin Gishu earning a narrow 9-3 win over Kwale. Bungoma got a 10-0 walkover against Homa Bay, while Trans Nzoia triumphed 16-13 against Narok. In athletics, Kennedy Rotich (Uasin Gishu) won the 5,000 metres race, Michael Kilonzo outran opponents in 3,000 metres and Tipapa Kirkoror from Narok bagged the men’s discus and javelin titles. Mbula Mutula (Makueni) and Saitoti Sirere (Kajiado) emerged victorious in women’s and men’s 100 metres races.  