Gerald Mosse is set to captain the European team in Saturday's, Shergar Cup, deputising for Frankie Dettori, who will be at Newmarket. Dettori, a four-time winner of the unique event as captain of Europe and Rest Of The World, has passed on his baton, temporarily, because of commitments to ride three horses for John Gosden. This includes an exciting juvenile named Pennywhistle in the Group 3 Sweet Solera Stakes. Mosse also acquired a substantial record in the Shergar Cup, adopting winning-most rider, with the Alistair Haggis Silver Saddle, twice. LATE WITHDRAWAL The Frenchman's team includes riders Andrasch Starke, and, Per-Anders Graberg. There will be six races of ten runners, contested by 12 jockeys. Each race will have two reserves, which can be called up until 45 minutes before the scheduled off time. Each jockey will, barring a late withdrawal, have five rides. The reason for not having full fields of 12 for each race is to cover any injuries. *** Two British contenders for Saturday's Grade 1 Arlington Million, emerged from quarantine in Chicago on Tuesday, and had a first feel of their turf track. Temperatures are high above 30 degrees, so, horses have cooling fans everywhere. Circus Couture, trained by Jane Chapple-Hyam, and Simon Crisford's, Century Dream, are part of a ten-strong European raiding party, spread across three other Grade One races. Aidan O'Brien's, Deauville goes for the Arlington, while his Athena, takes a shot at Beverly D Stakes, in which she will face Nyaleti. The master of Ballydoyle also has two of five Irish entries in Secretariat Stakes, with Hunting Horn and Lucius Tiberius. The others are Bandua (Dermot Weld), Ming (Joseph O'Brien) and Platinum Warrior (Mick Halford). DECENT RECORD Europeans have a decent record in the Million, with wins for O'Brien (Powerscourt, 2005/Cape Blanco, 2011), John Gosden (Debussy, 2010) and David O'Meara, for whom Mondialiste was a breakthrough winner, 2016. Chapple-Hyam, is already celebrating like a millionaire even before Saturday's race, as Naval Intelligence was sold to Hong Kong for £1.3 million. The son of War Front, was bought privately for less than 10,000 guineas, from the Coolmore operation. He is unbeaten in two starts, most recently taking the Listed Sir Henry Cecil Stakes at Newmarket.  