Politicians from Western are conflicted over plans by Central Organisation of Trade Unions (Cotu) boss Francis Atwoli to mobilise a Sh500 million war-chest to galvanise the Luhya community in readiness for the 2022 General Election. The outspoken trade unionist revealed last week that he is mobilising the kitty from personal funds as well as from donations to identify the community’s chosen presidential candidate for 2022. The exercise is reminiscent of the December 2016 rally at Bukhungu stadium, Kakamega when he declared Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi as the Luhya spokesman amid protests from Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula and former Lugari MP Cyrus Jirongo. Mr Mudavadi later joined forces with Mr Wetang’ula in the National Super Alliance (Nasa) under the leadership of Raila Odinga. BREAK RANKS Mr Atwoli would later break ranks with both Mr Mudavadi and Mr Wetang’ula when they skipped the mock swearing in of Mr Odinga at Uhuru Park Nairobi on January 30 this year. This time round, Mr Atwoli says the Luhya community must identify its foremost leader and spokesman by December 2021 to stand a good chance of clinching the presidency in 2022. The unionist, who was speaking in Vihiga county during the homecoming of Emuhaya MP Mr Omboko Milemba last weekend, said he was determined to ensure the Luhya community ascends to the presidency in 2022. This week, Ford Kenya deputy party leader Dr Boni Khalwale said leaders would soon engage Mr Atwoli on the matter. “We will share a platform with him. That is when we will tell him our mind about his plan,” said Dr Khalwale. But Tongaren MP Dr Eseli Simiyu laughed off the plan saying the unionist was known for creating controversy. STIRRING CONTROVERSY “Being a trade unionist, he likes stirring controversy. I don’t know the parameters he is going to use (to arrive at the spokesman). I would rather not comment much on that,” said Dr Simiyu. Mr Atwoli said the renaming of a political spokesman will be held at Bukhungu stadium in Kakamega County, the same venue where Mr Mudavadi was crowned the Luhya leader in 2016 and noted that the event will be called ‘Bukhungu two’. “In 2021, before the 2022 election, there will be ‘Bukhungu two’. I have set aside Sh500 million and I am seeking more funds to give you (the Luhya) a leader,” said Mr Atwoli. “The first one (On December 30, 2016) that saw Mudavadi named was ‘Bukhungu one’. ‘Bukhungu two’ is coming. I will sponsor it. Those saying they want to be presidents should ask themselves if they indeed want to be leaders.” POPULAR LEADER He did not reveal the process and parameters that would be used towards achieving this. In 2016, Mr Atwoli engaged the University of Nairobi in conducting a survey to determine the most popular leader in the community. The unionist later described Mr Mudavadi as a national leader who can be accepted across the country. Sabatia MP Alfred Agoi, an ally of Mr Mudavadi, asked leaders not to read too much into Mr Atwoli’s 2021 plan and affirmed that the unionist still believes in Mr Mudavadi as a unifying factor that could help address the elusive Luhya unity. Vihiga Senator George Khaniri welcomed the plan but noted that other communities had leaders who just emerged and needed not to be named. “The Luhya are united. The narrative of Luhya unity is destroying our bid as others feel we are divided. A leader is supposed to emerge, rise above the rest and not be appointed,” said Mr Khaniri.   The Deputy President said he supported Mr Odinga in 2007.