More than 2,000 years ago, Julius Caesar of ancient Rome liked to wear robes made of Chinese silk. The silk products were transported through a trade route linking Asia and Europe that would be known as the Silk Road. More than 600 years ago, a fleet led by the Chinese navigator Zheng He arrived at Mombasa and Malindi, bringing porcelain, silk and tea. The king of Malindi sent his envoy along on a return visit with a giraffe as a gift. That had opened the “Maritime Silk Road”. Five years ago, while in Asian countries, including Indonesia and Kazakhstan, China’s President Xi Jinping proposed the Silk Road Economic Belt and the 21st-Century Maritime Silk Road (the Belt and Road). The Belt and Road Initiative acts in the spirit of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits. And it boosts policy consultation, trade promotion, infrastructure connectivity, financial cooperation and people-to-people exchanges. MULTIPLIER EFFECT It emphasises on integrating the development strategies and complementary advantages of the countries along the Belt and Road, creating a multiplier effect. The initiative has since transformed itself from a vision to practical actions. China has signed 103 agreements with 88 countries and international organisations. It worked with 43 countries and set up 75 overseas economic and trade cooperation zones, paying $2.2 billion taxes to the hosts and creating 200,000 local jobs. Trade and investment have been growing rapidly with the trading volume surpassing $4 trillion and the investment volume at more than $60 billion. The BRI is a reflection of many countries’ common aspirations for prosperity and development and meets the need of them to tackle their challenges. DOUBLE STANDARD However, some people are too critical to be objective. They label it as “not abiding by the rules” when it does not accord with their double standard. They deem it as “discrimination and prejudice” even if there is just some misunderstanding. They claim that there is a “debt trap” when they just see the word “loan”. They are full of anxiety even while the relevant countries do not worry about it themselves. Not a few countries in Asia and Africa are, indeed, worrying due to the situations of poverty, unemployment, ethnic conflicts and refugee crisis. If I may ask the critics and doubting Thomases, what could you bring to these countries? The answer seems like, as an Asian economist puts it, “NATO” (No Action, Talk Only)! No country has been crippled by a debt crisis due to its cooperation with China. The container throughput of Greek’s Piraeus port has increased six-fold from 93rd to 36th globally. And the cotton processing capacity in Tajikistan has increased from 10 per cent to 40 per cent with 90 per cent exported, becoming the biggest source of its foreign exchange earnings. The BRI is based on market rules and international norms with every project is the result of equal consultation. SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT China, along with other 26 countries, has formulated the ‘Guiding Principles on Financing the Development of the Belt and Road’ which advocate a transparent, friendly, non-discriminatory and predictable financing environment and ensure sustainable economic and social development. Based on these, China has helped many developing countries to break their capital bottleneck by financing and investment cooperation. Under the BRI, China and Kenya, and more than 40,000 workers from both countries, together completed the 472-kilometre standard gauge railway (SGR) project in two and a half years, shortening the Nairobi-Mombasa trip from more than 10 hours to five. The SGR has driven up Kenya’s economic growth by 1.5 per cent and created 46,000 local jobs. Since its launch on May 31 last year, passenger volume for the ‘Madaraka Express’ has hit 1.58 million and freight trains hauled 112,000 twenty-foot equivalent units (TEUs), lowering freight and business costs by 79 and 40 per cent, respectively. TECHNICAL SKILLS The goal of this project is to help the Kenyan people to be equipped with management experience and technical skills. China has, since the SGR, trained over 5,000 Kenyan professionals.Since 2016, 100 Kenyan students have been sponsored to study for a bachelor’s degree in railway studies at Jiaotong University of China, in addition to technical training at the Shijiazhuang Railway Institute.China and Africa suffered colonial oppression with their economic lifeline controlled by foreigners. Therefore, China will neither repeat the history nor impose its views on others. We will value friendship, justice and shared interests. Ms Sun is China's Ambassador to Kenya. chinaembassykenya@gmail.com.   No country has been crippled by a debt crisis due to its cooperation with China.