Defending champions Homeboyz take on surprise pack Kisii, while Mwamba are up against series champion Kabras Sugar in the Driftwood Sevens that enters the quarterfinal stage Sunday at the Mombasa Sports Club. In the other Cup quarters matches, Nakuru face Menengai Oilers, while Kenya Commercial Bank are up against Nondescripts. On form Mark Wandeto touched down four tries as Homeboyz, who are chasing their fourth consecutive Cup victory, crushed Northern Suburbs 38-5 to top Pool “A” match and ease through to the Cup quarters on day of action Saturday. However, it’s the Northern Suburbs, who drew the first blood when Wilson Juma outpaced his markers for the first try, which went unconverted. Homeboyz came back strongly with Kenya Sevens skipper Oscar Ayodi and Jeff Oluoch scoring a try each. Wandeto would score a double for the Deejays, who led 26-5 at the break, before adding two more tries in the second half. Earlier, Homeboyz had beaten hosts Mombasa 19-5 and Menengai Oilers 22-5 to win the pool. Oilers beat Suburbs 17-0 and Mombasa 12-5 to join the Deejays in the cup quarters from the pool. Northern Suburbs were a late replacement from Mean Machine from the University of Nairobi, who were involved in a road accident near Mtito Andei, while travelling to Mombasa alongside Blak Blad from Kenyatta University on Friday night. Blak Blad secretary Motto Williams disclosed that their bus rolled after being hit by a lorry that was being driven on the wrong lane. Five players got major injuries and were taken to Mtito Andei Hospital before being transferred to Kibwezi Hospital and Nairobi for further medical attention. “There should be no cause for alarm since there injured players are in stable condition,” said Williams. Kisii stunned Masinde Muliro, who replaced Blak Blad, 17-5 before beating Kisumu 22-0 qualify for main Cup despite losing to Nakuru 12-0. Nakuru won the pool with Kisii finishing second. Nondies shocked Mwamba 24-12 in their Pool “D” opener before beating Makueni 12-0 to qualify from Pool “D” despite losing to Kenya Harlequin 22-17. Mwamba defeated Quins 22-17 to sail through.Nakuru, who lost to Homeboyz 19-7 at Kebebri Sevens final last weekend, are optimistic of winning Driftwood. “My boys are playing very well and have all it takes to bag this year’s Driftwood Sevens which is our main target for now”, said Nakuru coach Mitch Ocholla. In other matches at the same venue, Kenya Commercial Bank defeated Strathmore University 24-5, Kabras 24-0 and Impala 5-0 to top Pool “C” and sail through. Sunday’s fixtures Challenge Trophy quarterfinals Northern Suburbs v MMUST (9am); Harlequin v Strathmore Leos (9.20am); Kisumu v Mombasa (9.40am); Impala Saracens v Makueni (10am); Man Cup quarterfinals Homeboyz v Resolution Kisii (10.20am);Mwamba v Kabras Sugar (10.40am); Nakuru v Menengai Oilers (11am); KCB v Nondescripts (11.20am).  