'Only put off until tomorrow what you are willing to die left undone' Pablo Picasso 'Mum, you do know that you could die right?' This came from my daughter, the day before a scheduled surgery. We were seated around the dining table, sorting out some housekeeping issues. Everyone gasped at her bluntness. My middle child. The unemotional factual one. The one who always said it as it was. Her brother and sister were distressed at her lack of feeling. "How can you say that to your mother?" They asked aghast. "But it's true. There are risks that go with surgery!" she answered. They held their heads in their hands and groaned. I had to put them out of their misery. "Nothing is going to happen. I'm not going to die." "How do you know that?" I mustered my motherly bravado and looked at the wall clock. "Well for one, tomorrow is not a good day to die. Two, surgery has gotten safer with time." My emotional children held on to that. "Can we please stop talking about this?" My eldest daughter who is averse to all things blood and needles pleaded. She was already feeling queasy and looked close to fainting. My son stared ahead, stoic, trying hard to keep a brave face. COVERED HER EARS "Stop talking about the surgery?" "Don't say that word!" she covered her ears. "Well what should we call it then?" "Call it 'S'" "Okay. So mum, how long did the doctor say your 'S' was going to be?" I couldn't hold back the laughter. It was supposed to be a serious moment when we run through what would happen the next day. However, the different personalities of my three children were showing their stark contrasts. They joined in, and for a moment we forgot about the 'S' and let the laughter soothe away our anxieties. The 'S' talk out of the way, I went about trying to finalise a lot of things on my to do list. There was a bag to pack, last minute work emails and texts to send, lists to compile. Fortunately for me, this was a scheduled surgery and so I had had some time to plan for things like grocery shopping and paying urgent bills. However, here I was, the night before my surgery with so much left undone. At some point I sat back bewildered and wondered how anyone could rearrange their life in just a couple of hours. "Teach us to number our days," Moses prayed in Psalm 90:12 in the Bible, "that we may gain a heart of wisdom". If I was honest with myself, I had done a lousy job of numbering my days, and it was all catching up with me. All the errands, tasks or conversations that I had procrastinated were now urgently staring me in the face and the clock was ticking. What was important? What was urgent? In the end I did the best I could with the time on my hands. Many things would remain undone. But a few important ones like letting my loved ones know that I loved them dearly, I could tick off. Our parents and teachers taught us to "not put off until tomorrow, what can be done today". It's a lesson that takes some of us too long to learn. You see we are all running out of time. Everyday we have 24 hours less on our personal clock. The big problem is we don't know when the clock will stop. Most of us choose to ignore this depressing fact. The wise understand that they can never be too prepared. Some of us are fortunate to receive a "wake up" call that causes us to refocus our lives and reorder our priorities around what is meaningful. We "wake up" to our mortality and the importance of living consciously instead of passively. American life coach Mary Allen defines consciousness in her online blog Living In The Sweet Spot. She writes, "What is it to be conscious? Essentially, being “conscious” is about bringing AWARENESS to every aspect of your life — inside and out... We can consciously evaluate each area of life, such as our health, finances, relationships, fun, our environment and our spirituality. We can be conscious of being conscious. Noticing when we are “present to life” or “checked out.” When all of our senses are engaged, or when we are numb." If you haven't had a wake up call yet, may you never need one. That's usually a painful and expensive lesson. May you instead be awake to the brevity of life everyday and with wisdom, live the rest of your days more consciously.    It was in every respect, a fairytale wedding but why were some of us so enamoured?