Kisumu and Siaya governors are defending their pace of working on the promises they made a year after taking office. In interviews with the Nation, the county chiefs admitted they had met bumps along the way, delaying the achievement of goals they had set. In Kisumu, Governor Anyang Nyong’o had listed relocation of Kachok dumpsite, establishment of village councils and setting up of a city board among the top 10 projects he planned to implement within 100 days in office. At his swearing-in ceremony at the Jomo Kenyatta Sportsground, he outlined plans to fulfil the French-funded Kisumu Urban Project (KUP) that has proper plans on relocation of the dumpsite and various development projects within the city. KACHOK DUMPSITE Out of these, the governor has set up a city board and commenced the removal of the Kachok dumpsite but has stopped for a while with many raising questions. “The removal of the dumpsite was to be in phases and currently the portion where the solid waste has been evacuated has been fenced and turned into a botanical garden,” he told the Nation. “The second phase will commence soon.” Initially meant to be relocated within two months, it faced litigants who at one point managed to get court orders to suspend the relocation. LACK OF FUNDS Later, the county got a reprieve to relocate the dirt, only to be met with another litigation challenging the environmental safety sense of the project. The governor had also indicated he would clear up the drainage system in the city, initiate the improvement of road networks and clean-up the lakefront in preparation for further infrastructural improvement to facilitate maritime transport, tourism and regional trade. The clean-up is going on and there have been improvement on the road networks with majority of them under the Kisumu Urban Project currently being constructed, after illegal structures and buildings on road reserves were flattened. Both Nyong’o and Siaya’s Cornel Rasanga blamed lack of funds for slow implementation of planned programmes. Through his director of communications, Jerry Sando, Mr Rasanga said the court battle pitting him against his arch rival Nicholas Gumbo hampered implementation of various projects, especially within the 100 days after being sworn in for the second term in August 21 last year. SCHOOL FEEDING The governor also mentioned political interference by the county assembly, as having affected his plans. “There was too much politicking, especially with MCAs who took months to approve my Cabinet. This slowed down many programs as scheduled,” Mr Rasanga said. During the swearing-in last year, he had promised to fast-track the establishment of Barack Obama University as well as coordinate with the national government on the need to strengthen Odera Okang'o and Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Universities, some of the institutions of higher learning in the county. The governor also said that he will implement school feeding programme that will target all children in ECDE schools and eventually improve the quality of education. He has also attributed failure to fulfil most of the promises to late disbursement of funds and therefore chose to complete projects that were incomplete during his first term. EDUCATION He his however focused on few flagship projects that he says he must achieve before his final term elapses especially on health and education. “I will ensure that I make universal healthcare available for all residents of Siaya, build a new stadium and boost food security through irrigation,” the governor said. He had pledged to seek for public private partnership to support the large-scale production of cotton (cash crop) that will eventually provide residents with alternative sources of income. He is also focused on providing quality education to all ECDE children in the county as part of his legacy. He has embarked on the construction of classrooms in all public primary schools and employing ECDE teachers as well as ensure the learners are enrolled in a school feeding programme. ELECTION VIOLENCE Prof Nyong’o's agenda was slowed down by post-vote violence that hit the county following the 2017 August elections. The violence and property destruction interrupted activities for more than four months before the peace deal between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga quelled the tension. Prof Nyong’o pointed out that he had to try to align the 2017/18 budget, which was made during his predecessor Jack Ranguma’s reign, with his manifesto and also clear debts. “We inherited a bloated workforce and huge pending bills which we have tried to reduce therefore affecting other programmes. I have also initiated staff audit to streamline the workforce,” Prof Nyong’o said. MARKET The governor also listed as priority modernisation of Jubilee, Kibuye and Otonglo markets to improve security for traders, create more space for trading, sanitation, provision of water and easier access to banking services. However, thousands of traders are still hawking on the streets and are yet to be relocated to other established markets. He is however yet to establish village councils and appoint administrators to facilitate the process of public participation in policymaking and the evaluation of policy implementation by the wananchi as required by the Constitution. “We have presented to the county assembly a bill establishing Kisumu County Road Maintenance Teams (KCRMT) to help maintain access roads once they are constructed, another on community health workers and establishment of village councils.”   Kisumu City Manager Doris Ombara says relocation will take two-and-a-half months.