AFC Leopards were on Wednesday surprisingly beaten 2-1 by second from bottom Wazito in an exciting SportPesa Premier League match at the Kenyatta stadium in Machakos. In other results of mid-week league matches played , Ulinzi Stars thrashed visiting Nakumatt 3-0 at the rain-soaked Afraha stadium in Nakuru County, while Tusker too emerged victors, defeating visiting Chemelil Sugar 2-0 at the Ruaraka grounds. There was also joy for coach William Mluhya’s Kariobangi Sharks, who swept aside relegation-threatened Thika United by three unanswered goals in earlier match at the Kenyatta Stadium. Sofapaka were 1-0 winners against Posta Rangers at the Camp Toyoyo grounds. Meanwhile, this was the second time in as many matches that Leopards were losing a league game. This result comes two days after that embarrassing 2-0 defeat to arch-rivals Gor Mahia at Kasarani Stadium.   The proceedings started in the best possible fashion for coach Rodolfo Zapata’s charges after Nigerian import Alex Orotomal scored the opening goal 22 minutes into the game. He pounced onto an Edward Seda low cross and unleashed a shot, which easily beat Martin Musalia at his right hand near post. Derrick Onyango equalised for a re-energised Wazito moments after the restart and when everyone watching perhaps thought the match was headed for a draw, David Oswe tried his luck from 30 yards with a fierce shot which flew past Leopards custodian Ezekiel Owade and into the back of the net with a minute to full time.   “Coming from behind to win against Leopards shows what we are made of. Despite the challenges we faced, giving up is not part of our DNA,” Wazito coach Frank Ouna boasted after the match. In Nakuru, Ulinzi took an early lead through Harambee Stars trialist Omar Mbongi, who netted via a header in the seventh minute   This game was however temporarily suspended with ten minutes following a heavy downpour which left the Afraha stadium pitch resembling a river bank. Play resumed 30 minutes later however after rain subsided and the hosts added two goals from Elvis Nandwa and Oscar Musa to seal the three points. At the same time, a resurgent Tusker humbled the sugar millers thanks to goals from Justine Omary and Jackson Macharia. Bottom placed Thika United also posted their fifth loss on the trot at the hands of Kariobangi Sharks, who were on their part buoyed by goals from George Abege, Duke Abuya and Eric Kapaito. Wednesday's Results AFC Leopards 1-2 Wazito Tusker 2-0 Chemelil Sugar Thika United 0-3 Kariobangi Sharks Ulinzi Stars 3-0 Nakumatt Posta Rangers 0-1 Sofapaka   This result comes two days after that embarrassing 2-0 defeat to arch-rivals Gor Mahia.