In September 2012, police officer Daniel Muigai was deployed along with more than 100 other officers to Baragoi at the height of tribal clashes in the area. On November 2, 2012, only two months later, the officers were attacked by suspected cattle rustlers leaving 40 officers dead. They were killed in the line of duty. “I remember it like it was yesterday; one of the scariest moments in my life. It made me appreciate the importance of peace,” he says. After surviving the ordeal, Mr Muigai, decided to his gift of music to preach peace and integration. He goes by the stage name Dantez. Dantez recently launched his second music album known as Jesu Wakwa which has six songs. The album consists of a mix of patriotic, gospel, Kigosho and Rnb music. Here is a one on one interview with Dantez.   What inspired you to venture into music? My love for music goes way back to my childhood days. However, with no funds to record even a single song, my music aspirations sort of faded out. It took the tragic events of November 2, 2012 to stir up my gift of music. God had saved me from death itself. I had no choice but to thank Him by being a testimony to the world through music. That was the beginning of my music career.  How is it like being a police officer as well as doing music? How do you balance the two? It takes a lot of sacrifice. Furthermore, music is just one of the things I do besides my service in the police force. I also draw and dance. In addition to all that, I am a student at the Presbyterian university of East Africa Nakuru campus pursuing a degree in Computer Science. All these are part of who I am so I have learnt to utilise my time and resources wisely.  What is your genre of music? I started with Kigocho which is praise songs sung in Kikuyu. However, my friends who did not understand Kikuyu requested that I also do songs that they would listen to and understand. This led me to start writing some Swahili songs although most of my songs are Kigocho.    What are some of the challenges you have encountered so far? Men! Lots of challenges. First, the nature of my job greatly curtails my freedom. There is not much support accorded to me with regard to my career as a music artiste. I am however grateful for the little leniency I get. Secondly, I face financial challenges in the area of music production because I desire the best when it comes to quality but this comes at a price. Lastly, the network and opportunities to market my music are very limited again due to the nature of my job.  What have you achieved through music? Music has helped me recover my inner being. Through music, I have nurtured youths especially those with music ambitions. I produce music to heal broken souls and I will keep singing and impacting more lives through music.   What should your fans expect? I am currently working on two songs, "Jesu Wakwa" and "Nowe", which I hope will be a blessing to many. In addition, my fans and all Kenyans in general can count on me to keep serving our nation Kenya diligently and respect. This is by God's Grace.  Where do you see yourself in the next five years? I want my brand (Mzalendo Val Dantez) to be a role model to the young stars. I want to make my country proud. I want to help unify Kenya through the Mzalendo Initiative Organisation and make a positive mark on our nation.   The future of my children worries me more than my pain.