Just who will blink first? That is the question as Butali Sugar Warriors and champions Kenya Police claimed comprehensive victories at the weekend at City Park to stay at the top of the men’s hockey Premier League. Talisman George Mutira scored a hat-trick as Butali crushed Strathmore University 5-0 on Saturday while Police swat aside Parklands 3-0 on Sunday. Besides Mutira, Constance Wakhura and Seth Obuni also scored to see Butali Sugar, the 2016 champions, uphold their lead on superior goal difference since they tie with Police on 30 points each. From their 11 outings, Butali Sugar and Police now have 10 wins and one loss each. However, the sugar men have scored 33 goals with their mean defence conceding seven for the goal difference of 26. The men in blue have also scored 33 but have conceded 14 for the goal difference of 19. Butali Sugar team manager Kamal Sembi predicted that the league will go down to the wire with their return match against Police perhaps being the decider. Police gunned down Butali 3-0 in the first leg. “All matches are tough but beating former champions Strathmore by that huge margin was excellent…the boys woke up to the beat and heat,” said Sembi, adding that they have wiped out the dust from their Police defeat to focus on a good end to the second leg. “We need to maintain the momentum.” Police deputy coach Fredrick Masibo said they have no pressure against any team adding that they will tackle all their opponents evenly. “Nothing will distract us from our main target of defending the title,” said Masibo, who decried the lengthy period they had taken after their last match. “We won but not convincingly because we are slow on the ball perhaps. It is tough to maintain the momentum after being away for almost a month.” On Sunday, Police took control of the game but it took 15 minutes before Samson Kabirir put them on the board from a field goal. The second quarter failed to produce any goals but some individual brilliance from Amos Barkibir saw him stretch Police's lead in the 34th minute from another scintillating field goal. The fourth quarter was a thriller with Parklands missing golden opportunities to come back on Police. Their skipper Fredrick Okeyo failed to place in Franklin Kiyodi’s connection with Allan Odongo also blasting wide in two occasions. Barkibir, Felix Okoth and Richard Birir were also culprits, missing open chances but Victor Wekesa connected in a back flip to put Police beyond reach in the 58th minute.  