Luhya leaders yesterday vowed to support one of their in the 2022 presidential election, saying the time to play second fiddle is over. Speaking in Kitale, Trans Nzoia County, during a memorial service marking the 15th anniversary of the death of former Vice-President Kijana Wamalwa, they said it was time to strive for Luhya unity. The event was dominated by politics, with the leaders promising to work hard to ensure that the region read from the same page, a feat last realised by Mr Wamalwa. COMING TOGETHER Led by Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi, his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetangula and Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa, the leaders signed a Memorandum of Understanding aimed at uniting all the Luhya sub-tribes. The MOU, "Unity for Purpose", was read to the gathering by Vihiga Governor Wilber Ottichilo, and then signed by the community's top leaders. "We are here to announce that Western Kenya is coming together as a unified bloc which will determine the direction of politics in the country,” Mr Ottichilo read. Apart from Mr Mudavadi, Mr Wamalwa and Mr Wetangula, others who signed the MOU were Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka, Governors Ottichilo (Vihiga), Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia) and Wycliffe Wangamati (Bungoma). POLITICAL DAWN "We will no longer support others but will determine the political waves in Kenya," added Mr Ottichilo. Mr Mudavadi said the Jubilee government should address the region’s economic challenges before asking them for support in 2022. "We want to work together so that we all move forward and change our lives. Let's look at what is ailing us,” Mr Mudavadi appealed to the leaders. Mr Wetangula described the signing of the new MOU as a new political dawn in the region. "We must have dedication, sacrifice and be each other's keeper. I want to salute each and every one of our leaders that I see here today; they mean business,” the Bungoma Senator said. SIX MILLION However, Mr Wangamati noted that the MOU did not capture the crucial issues of sugar cane and maize growing, and called for its amendment to include them before it is presented to President Uhuru Kenyatta “Our sugar cane farming is under threat and must be rescued. As leaders from Western Kenya we say enough is enough. We cannot watch the livelihoods of more than six million people in Western, Nyanza and other parts of the country destroyed,” read the document. Nevertheless, the MOU was handed to CS Wamalwa to take to the President. "In memory of the late Vice-President Kijana Wamalwa, we remember that he did politics of unity and not division," said the Devolution CS, who also announced that the government has released Sh1.4 billion to pay farmers who delivered maize to the National Cereals and Produce Board last year. FRONT-RUNNER But some leaders called for a reality check and said the region should prepare adequately for the 2022 polls. “If you want to be President, you need to prepare. Deputy President William Ruto is the front-runner, Raila Odinga is also a front-runner but if our community wants to produce a front-runner in 2022, we need to act fast," said former Cabinet minister Noah Wekesa. Former Speaker Kenneth Marende and Mr Musikari Kombo also endorsed the MOU. They appealed to the leaders to be selfless and come up with a formidable candidate ahead of the 2022 poll.   Atwoli riles local leaders for either staying on the fence or going with political wind.