MPs wishing to attend National Assembly sessions as “friends of committees” will now send applications to the chairs at least 24 hours earlier. This follows amendments to standing orders as the House steps up measures to restore decorum and crack down on indecent conduct. SELFISH INTERESTS The House transacts its businesses through committees so goings-on affect its image. As a result, the committee on Procedures and House Rules has successfully amended standing order 195 to insert the new provision. Previously, any member would attend any committee meeting and freely deliberate on issues but would not vote. This allowance has apparently been abused as members have turned up to vouch for their selfish interests. “A member who intends to participate in a meeting of a committee of the House, of which he or she is not a member, shall submit a written request to the chairperson of the committee at least 24 hours before the meeting, or such other period the chairperson may in exceptional circumstances allow,” the new rule reads. Committee vice chair Mr Moses Cheboi (Kuresoi North), who is also the House Deputy Speaker, said the request will indicate any matter the member intends to raise at the meeting. DUALE'S VIEW The changes are on the backdrop of Majority Leader Aden Duale's accusation; that 'friends' invaded and took over proceedings of the Lands committee that is investigating claims of irregular dealings at the Sh85 billion Tatu City Limited. Mr Duale complained that the conduct of members - commenting on matters active before the courts, attendance, the usurping of meetings as friends and cozying with witnesses - portrayed the House in bad light. Among those who “invaded” the Lands session was Luanda MP Chris Omulele, a member of the Speaker’s panel which has been renamed the Committee of Chairpersons. Mr Omulele was recently ejected from the committee after it emerged that his wife was linked to one of the parties in the multi-billion shilling Tatu City ownership. Those who were with the MP were David Sankok (Nominated), Gideon Kosgei (Chepalungu), Silvanus Osoro (South Mugirango), Owen Baya (Kilifi North), Babu Owino (Embakasi East) and Olago Aluoch (Kisumu West). MUTURI'S WARNING The behaviour of the MPs is a case of their apparent failure to relate at ‘arms-length’, with witnesses appearing before committees before they enter meetings, during interrogation and in the course of their exit from meetings as per the ruling House Speaker Justin Muturi previously issued. A warning by Mr Muturi’s came as the House tried to redeem its image following revelations of wanton corruption among its members. “In some instances, these ‘friends’ have adopted the behaviour of the proverbial camel. The camel begged and received permission to insert only its nose into a traveller’s tent, but proceeded to insert its entire body and subsequently evict the traveller from his lodging,” he said. “There is no bar to non-committee members attending the proceedings of a committee. The scenes recently witnessed, where committee members were outnumbered by their ‘friends’ to the extent that they lacked sitting space and adequate time to prosecute their mandate were unfortunate and unacceptable.” According to the Speaker, the behaviour has cast the House in “very negative light” with regard to the seriousness and decorum of committee proceedings. “The partial or indecorous conduct of an individual member or a committee of the House is deemed, by extension, as the conduct of the House. Let us strive to do better and uphold the dignity of the House,” he said. PAST INCIDENTS In 2016, a session of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) that was investigating the Sh791 million loss at the National Youth Service (NYS) 1 scandal, was turned into a shouting contest as the then Devolution Cabinet Secretary Anne Waiguru appeared before it. Non-members led by Kitutu Chache North MP Jimmy Angwenyi and then Nairobi woman representative Rachael Shebesh, went not as friends of the committee as the rules required, but in solidarity with Ms Waiguru. Early this year, MPs mostly from Nyamira and Kisii counties, and led by Mr Angwenyi, were at it again. They thronged the session of the Administration and National Security committee in support of Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i, on a matter that was before the committee. Mr Angwenyi openly chastised members he considered as asking Dr Matiang’i hard questions. During a session of the joint committee on Agriculture and Trade, that was investigating the illegal importation of contraband sugar, he once again defended the CS as he faced the committee.   MPs have been using ‘impeachment’ threats to extort money from Cabinet Secretaries