Efforts by anti-graft agencies to find justice for farmers are ramping up with the charging of more suspects who perpetuated the irregular purchase of maize. National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) Eldoret branch manager Renson Kibet Korir and seven others were charged Friday over the Sh5.6 billion scandal. They were arrested on Thursday in Eldoret and brought to Nairobi to take plea. Those arrested alongside Mr Korir are: NCPB junior officers Caroline Kipchoge, Erick Kipketer Talam, Virginia Wamaitha Njoroge, Stephen Kiprop Maiyu, Peter Chirchir and David Barangetuny Korir; and trader Paul Kipyego Marus. CASH BAIL Mr Korir faces three counts: abuse of office, neglect of official duty by failing to ensure funds were prudently used in buying maize from registered and vetted farmers in accordance with NCPB guidelines, and failure to perform his functions concerning the purchase of maize, leading to irregular payments of Sh468 million. All the accused denied the charges against them. Senior Principal Magistrate Felix Kombo released Mr Marus and Mr Maiyo on a Sh2.5 million cash bail while the rest were granted a cash bail of Sh150,000 each. They were also instructed to deposit their passports in court. Mr Maiyo, Ms Celestine Chepchirchir, Mr Marus and Ms Caroline Chepchumba are alleged to have received Sh468,950,293 million. "The EACC is hereby directed to remand the eight at their police station while they process their bail terms since most of the relatives who can secure their release are based in Eldoret," he ruled. PENDING ARRESTS Further, State Prosecutor Lillian Obuor urged the court to allow EACC prosecutors to trace the suspects whose arrests are pending. "The suspects should be directed to surrender themselves to the office of the EACC in Eldoret upon receiving information or summons that they are required to stand trial over the maize scandal in Nairobi," she said. Consequently, Senior Principal Magistrate Kombo directed Mr Joseph Kipruto Cheboi, Mr Victoria Jebet Rotich, Ms Chepchumba, Mr Willie Kipkoech Sang, and Ms Chepchirchir to report to EACC offices in Eldoret. The case will be mentioned on September 4. LESIYAMPE CHARGED On Thursday, Agriculture Principal Secretary Richard Lesiyampe, former NCPB Managing Director Newton Terer and the finance general manager were also charged over the scandal. Dr Lesiyampe is facing charges of overseeing overspending of funds by NCPB outside the budget. He has also been accused of failing to ensure the maize was bought from farmers according to the law. "Upon investigations it was established that NCPB spent Sh11,365,879,918 thereby exceeding the Sh6 billion budge. "The Strategic Food Reserve Oversight Board had budgeted to purchase two million bags of maize for financial year 2017/18 at Sh6 billion. This expenditure was not budgeted for contrary to the law," Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji said in a statement.   Majority of the suppliers who were paid were not genuine farmers.