A 48-year-old man from Gaichanjiru village in Murang’a County has been arrested for allegedly killing one of his nine-month-old twin babies following  a disagreement with his wife over food. According to Kandara DCIO Peter Mugwika, the man came home drunk and demanded food. But after his wife, who was breastfeeding her twins, told him that there was no food, the furious man grabbed one of the infants and flung him against the wall. The DCIO said they have arrested the man and started investigations. He said the man will be charged with murder once they are through with investigations. DOMESTIC ISSUES “The man is in our custody and we shall arraign him in court and charge him with murder after completing investigations,” the DCIO said. The detective said that after the infant hit the wall, he cried and after a short while fell asleep. Later when the  mother decided to change his napkins, he found him lifeless. It was then that the mother reported the matter at Kabati Police Station where the suspect, Francis Muiruri, was arrested. The infant’s body was taken to Gaichanjiru mortuary. The detective urged locals to seek non-violent ways of handling domestic issues, like involving the police and seeking separation from their spouses instead of taking the law into their hands. INVESTIGATIONS Mr Elijah Kamau, a neighbour who responded to a distress call from the family, condemned the act. He asked police to carry out quick investigations and charge the suspect in court to serve as a lesson to others. “It's sad news in our village. The man should be in jail because he is a threat to us,” he said. At the same time, a 31-year-old man has been sentenced by a Kitale court to 15 years’ imprisonment after he was found guilty of killing his nine-year-old son. Fred Wekesa Wanyonyi, alias Makoti, was charged with killing his son, David Wafula, on January 25, 2015, at his home in Chebarus village in Trans Nzoia County. BAD HISTORY Judge Hillary Chemitei, while issuing the judgment, said the accused was guilty of the offence. The Judge said the prosecution had proved beyond reasonable doubt that the accused had killed his own son. "The death was caused by the cruelty of the accused who was his father," said Justice Chemitei. "This court equally takes into consideration the probation report which clearly indicates that the accused had a history of abusing his family.  He is hereby sentenced to serve 15 years in prison," the Judge ruled. TERRORISING In mitigation, the accused admitted committing the offence, saying that he was just disciplining the child and did not intend to harm him. He begged the court for leniency, saying he was remorseful and that he would be careful in future. However, Mr Lex Gimnyigei, a probation officer, said the accused was infamous for terrorising villagers and his family, and that this had in the past forced his wife to run away.  