Dan Ombok is an Afro Latin dance choreographer and instructor at The Nairobi Dance Project, and the founder & director at Kating Edge Events, an events company that provides event services and solutions.  1. You wear many hats - dancer, instructor, choreographer and events manager. How did you start dancing and how was that received especially by your parents?My love for Afro Latin dances started way back in the year 2006 when I bumped into a Salsa performance video online; right there and then I knew that was something I would love to do. I loved the music, the synchrony, the connection, the musicality and how the couple engaged the audience during the performance and since then I have never looked back. Well, my parents didn’t know right away that I was into dancing, I kept it on the low for some time because I didn’t know how they would take it, but I would mention it in passing and give hints here and there. Eventually I had to come clean especially when I started getting TV interviews! I needed to ensure they knew so that they were not surprised when they saw me on TV. Initially they were indifferent about it but with time I guess they warmed up to the fact that it’s what I love doing.  2. Did you go to school for your dancing career?I initially started learning through instructional videos online and later took up several dance classes with both local and international instructors. With a lot of practice, I have perfected the art. School is an integral part of training since it gives one an in depth and broad view of the subject, besides getting the opportunity to get specialised training and skills.3. What are some of the challenges you have had to overcome as an event manager?At times meeting demands and expectations can be challenging especially when more than one stakeholder involved comes with different opinions. Sometimes the brief can end up changing half way through the planning process because of that. Other times, there’s pressure to make events bigger and better on tight budgets. Vendors not keeping time means the set up will delay. Clients sometimes giving the go ahead too close to the event date hence very little time to plan. And in some cases, bad weather during outdoor events!4. Why do you think that artists often have to prove themselves more than other more traditional careers?Careers in the creative space have long been considered second tier careers since over the years the generally known and accepted career areas have been in the traditional sectors like medicine, accounting, sales and marketing, banking and many more, which are considered more respectable than being an artist. I think this is a perception issue, which is slowly changing.5. How did the Nairobi Dance Project come about? What do you do, and where do you meet?The Nairobi Dance Project is an initiative of Dance for Charity Foundation that is committed to cultivating and nurturing a community of professional dance instructors, performers, competitors and students by providing opportunities for training, performance and collaboration. It comprises talented and dedicated dancers who share a passion for the art of dance and dance performance. We strive to provide the highest quality instruction, training and education in the art of dance through a warm, supportive and safe environment. The project includes collaboration with internationally acclaimed dance companies such as: Island Touch Dance Academy (USA). We meet at MDA Studio at Valley Arcade shopping center and Dance Center Kenya at Lavington Mall on different days.   James Wamathai is a writer, digital marketer, online publisher, and a digital rights activist.