Couples develop that trust and connection while they’re dating, and very few marry without it. But after the wedding, it often fades away, and the relationship gradually becomes empty and joyless. Why’s that? It’s mostly because you’ve stopped spending time with each other. Probably quite unintentionally, and without even noticing it happening. You no longer just sit together and talk. Whether about the happy or the challenging sides of your relationship. Or do things together like household chores, shopping expeditions, or all those little things that create happy memories. Couples often also start taking one another for granted. Remember how you surprised one another with little gifts, sent endless texts, planned dates, special meals and weekend trips? Why did you do all that? You were creating the connection between you. SAME GIRL And you still need to do that now. So go on doing the things that brought you together. Because the girlfriend who loved receiving flowers while you were dating is still the same girl. She didn’t change when she became your wife. And the boyfriend who loved hearing how much you admired him while you were dating is still the same guy. He didn’t change because he became your husband. So never stop romancing your spouse just because your relationship status changed from dating to married. Above all, you need to make your relationship your highest priority. Of course you’ll always be pulled in lots of different directions. But if you’re repeatedly putting your career, social life, interests or sport ahead of your spouse, then you’ll gradually lose the connection that brought you together. So regularly set time aside for each other, put everything else on hold, and give one another your undivided attention. Sit and chat, reminisce, make plans, cuddle and kiss. FASCINATION Remember how fascinated you were with each other while you were dating? What made her smile? What made him feel loved? What made you feel secure - or insecure? Don’t stop asking those questions now, just because you got married! Because people change. So you still need to keep asking in order to understand your partner’s moods and behaviour. You’re also not a mind reader. So ask directly if you’re not sure about something, and learn to read their body language. Especially learn to recognise when your partner is asking for attention. Giving it might be tough if you’ve been fighting, but you must always respond when they try to make a connection with you. Your spouse also needs you to be emotionally available. They need your support, understanding and compassion. They need to know that you can be trusted with their feelings. That you won’t criticise or judge. Build that sense of security and availability into your relationship, and you’ll always be happy together. *** nyumbayangu@me.com   Listen far more than you speak, and avoid lecturing and nagging.