An eight-year-old girl is nursing serious bullet injuries after she was shot by a stray police bullet in Mombasa. Fatma Yusuf, a Class One pupil at St Thomas Primary School in Kiembeni, was shot and injured on her left thigh leading to the dislocation of her leg. The girl was caught in a crossfire when police were pursuing suspected criminals in Kisauni. A bullet is still lodged in her leg. The pupil was playing with her friends when she heard gun shots within her vicinity. “I wanted to run like everyone else but I couldn’t; it was too late. I had been shot. I didn’t know what was happening; I was scared. I just saw blood oozing from my thighs,” Fatma said at the Coast General Provincial Hospital emergency ward where she is admitted. VISITING FATHER Her father, Mr Yusuf Mranja, a mason, said his daughter had just arrived from her grandmother’s home to visit him when she met the unfortunate incident. He said he had not seen her for two weeks only to see her being rushed to the hospital with gunshot injuries. “I was at work when all this happened. Her leg is broken and I am so sad. I just want justice for my child; she is my last born. Her dream is to become a beautician but with this injury she might not make it,” he said. UPROAR There was uproar among residents of Junda village following the shooting. A human rights activist called on the Director of Public Prosecutions Nurdin Hajj to order for the arrest of the police officers involved in the incident and charge them. Commission for Human Rights and Justice (CFHRJ) Executive Director Julius Ogogoh led Junda residents in condemning the police for “careless handling of firearms”. “The police should be arrested for harming an innocent child. This is carelessness and negligence in handling of firearms by law enforcers,” Mr Ogogoh said. DISTRESS CALL But Mombasa County Police Commander Johnston Ipara defended the officers saying they were responding to a distress call and they did not intend to cause any harm. He said a stray bullet hit the girl as police were pursuing the gang. “The public had sighted a gang among them, a dangerous criminal who has been harassing residents. Police officers rushed and in the process of arresting the dangerous criminal gang, a stray bullet hit an innocent girl,” Mr Ipara said. He said four suspects were arrested and are helping police with investigations.  