Nairobi County Assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi has told MCAs to stop personal attacks on Governor Mike Sonko. This follows an ugly exchange of words between the governor and Kitisuru MCA Alvin Palapala last week where Mr Sonko, while addressing a crowd during the launch of a children’s park in Kangemi, accused Mr Palapala of abusing his mother after refusing to heed his request to buy him iron sheets. Governor Sonko also alleged that the MCA is one of two ward representatives “sponsored” by his opponents to fight and blackmail him. He asked Kitisuru Ward residents to collect signatures to recall the MCA for disrespecting and abusing him. But Mr Palapala denied the accusations saying that he only asked the governor to buy his people, who were left homeless after a fire incident, iron sheets and blankets and not for his personal use. RESPECT SONKO But Speaker Elachi told the MCAs to restrain from dragging the name of Mr Sonko into personal issues, urging them to respect the governor at all times. “Our governor is a family man and he is the father of the county of Nairobi so we have to respect him. I believe he is doing his work and your work is to oversight but not dragging the governor’s name into your personal issues,” said Ms Elachi. Ms Elachi pleaded with the MCAs to learn to separate work-related issues from personal issues and only concentrate on working for the people who elected them and discuss matters that relate only to the assembly. “When you go to the governor, go and do your work and when you finish the work, you do not need to put it on WhatsApp with other personal issues,” she said. SET BOUNDARIES The Speaker’s sentiments were echoed by Kariokor MCA Millicent Mugadi who urged her colleagues to set boundaries when it comes to how they relate to and address the City Hall boss. “We cannot be on social media attacking the governor on his personal lifestyle and personal issues. Let us stick to what brought us here which is our obligation to Nairobi residents,” said the chairperson of the Education committee. Mr Palapala is not the only MCA who has ever had a falling-out with Governor Sonko. He joins the list which also includes Minority Whip Peter Imwatok who does not see eye to eye with Mr Sonko as he is one of his harshest critics over his management of county affairs.  