The government has pledged unspecified rewards for Kenya’s track and field team that finish top of the medals table at the 21st African Athletics Championships in Asaba, Nigeria, on Sunday. Speaking when receiving the team at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport on Monday night, Sports Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia conceded that while the athletes always did the country proud, they have never really been adequately rewarded. But as Team Kenya landed, several other teams were still stranded in Nigeria after missing their connecting flights following delays in getting out of Asaba, which is just under 500 kilometres from Lagos. Teams from Rwanda and Burkina Faso opted to travel by road from Asaba to Lagos overnight on Sunday after the chartered flights out of Asaba proved unreliable. The Ugandan team was among those stranded on Monday after missing their connecting flight in Lagos. Officials from the championships’ Local Organising Committee were nowhere in sight.. "In the past we have failed you but now all things will be better organised. The way you do us proud, we shall do you proud," said Kaberia who was accompanied by Sports Cabinet Administrative Secretary Hassan Noor Hassan. Also at the airport to greet the team was Athletics Kenya (AK) treasurer David Miano, branch chairmen Barnabas Korir, Ainsworth Maragara and John Wachira, among other officials Team Kenya weathered the difficulties they encountered on arrival in Nigeria to chalk up their best ever show since the 1982 continental championships in Cairo. The men’s 4x400m relay’s team of Jared Momanyi, Emmanuel Korir, Haron Koech and Alphas Kishioyan coasted to victory to gloriously wrap up Kenya’s impeccable outing in the Delta State city of Asaba with a total haul of 19 medals — 11 gold, six silver and two bronze. Hassan said the ministry’s top management were happy with the results and congratulated the team for remaining calm despite the difficulties they endured in Nigeria. "We are very proud of you. The Cabinet Secretary is very proud of you. This ministry has a different leadership and we guarantee we will make your life easier," Hassan said. "You have made us proud for not only winning gold, but behaving well. You kept your cool and focused on getting the medals." The ministry later hosted the team for dinner at the Weston Hotel where Miano and AK vice president Paul Mutwii said they would continue supporting athletes in the squad to Nigeria, including the relay teams that performed beyond expectations. The team’s head of delegation Abraham Mutai said he would immediately compile a report on the Asaba assignment with a view to maintaining the momentum onto next year’s assignments, the highlight of which will be the IAAF World Championships in Doha. Algeria will host the next African Championships in 2020.   Kenya captured the most titles with 11.