When Adan Marwa got disqualified from refereeing at the just-concluded Russia World Cup, he went down with the dreams of a whole country. The man was brought down by a sting operation by undercover journalists who lured him into taking a bribe. Although Kenya was not taking part in the global extravaganza, we were happy that at least our country’s name would feature when Marwa took to the pitch as one of the men in black. That is now water under the bridge and Marwa’s name has been relegated to the footnotes of our country’s history. By a good turn of fate, Kenya has another chance to have one of her own feature in a global contest. Her name is Rehema Maria Kimulu and she has been appointed one of the arbiters at the 43rd Chess Olympiad to be held between September 23 to October 7 in Batumi, Georgia. The tournament is the equivalent of Olympic Games in the world of chess.   Kimulu says she is alive to the heavy responsibility placed on her young shoulders and promises to fly the Kenyan flag very high. “It is a great honour. Indeed, for Kenya and the Chess Kenya Federation, sport has always been one of the best platforms to showcase our beautiful flag and beautiful land. I embrace this rare honour to fly high Kenya’s flag on the global map and in this capacity. I hereby present this opportunity to us all to embrace this honour,” she said during our interview. She has had interest in the game as long as she can remember. According to her, she was introduced to the game for the first time by her cousin when she was just nine years old, with her elder brother taking up the role of her tutor in the game. “My brother would then take me through how each piece moved using the one-page manual that came along with the set. That was all we knew. We barely went beyond the basic beginner’s level. We would mostly use the set to play drafts instead. A second opportunity came about when I was 16 years old. My former high school accepted to have a Chess coach, and although my initial response was the typical “why have a coach?” I benefited greatly from it,” the fifth born in a family of nine children says. INTEREST BLOSSOMED The interest later blossomed and with time she started winning competitions some of which included - national Chess Women’s qualifiers to: 39th World Chess Olympiad in Khanty-Mansiysk, Russia in 2010; 40th World Chess Olympiad in Istanbul, Turkey in 2012 and the 10th All Africa Games, in Maputo, Mozambique in 2011.   “I am a former University Ladies’ Chess Champion in intra and inter university competitions, while at Kenyatta University between 2007-2011. In 2010, I was crowned the universities ladies chess champion at the biennial East Africa University Games,” she says. “I made several appearances and I registered victories at both the annual Kenya National Chess League and the National University Games League. In addition, I was the Chess For Peace tournament ladies champion, 2012 and former Mombasa Open Annual Chess champion, ladies category, 2011.” The 31-year-old Kimulu is only the second Kenyan International Arbiter to officiate at an Olympiad, the first being her former team mate Purity Gachigi. She was appointed one of the match arbiters in 2014 for the 41st World Chess Olympiad that took place in Tromso, Norway, in 2014. However, there is only one glitch that stands between Rehema and her dream - an air ticket to Georgia. Although the international chess body FIDE is meeting the cost of her accommodation during the championship, Rehema, who has just returned home from studying for a masters degree in Energy Policy in African Union’s Pan-African University Institute of Water and Energy Sciences (Pauwes) in Algeria, will have to fund her travel. She is appealing to well-wishers to help her realise her dream of officiating in the tournament. In his letter to well-wishers, the Chess Kenya Secretary General John Mukabi says Rehema is part of an elite team of only five Kenyans who have earned the title of ‘FIDE Arbiter’ which is awarded by the world chess body.   Rehema says an arbiter plays a crucial role in a match. “Arbiters (referees) are the link between the organiser and the players in a tournament. They have several roles. The arbiters not only control the games, but also ensure the best conditions for the players in a tournament. This ensures that the players are not disturbed during the games and are able to play their games without any problem. “They also have to avoid any cheating by the players. I will be very professional in my jurisdiction,” she promises. Besides chess, she says her passion spreads across the need to provide equal and quality education, as well as clean, accessible and affordable energy to all Kenyans and the whole of Sub-Saharan region of Africa.   “Presently, many schools struggle to provide adequate educational material and the costs of energy keep rising by the day. These schools too, deserve the opportunity to experience the world of chess. I am currently creating awareness of the sport and its benefits to children in Machakos County and in some sites in Nairobi. I am nurturing a cause titled ‘Chess For Quality Education and Clean Affordable Energy in Africa’ that seeks to promote quality education among children in public schools as well as the need to afford their families clean, accessible and affordable energy,” she says. She says that through the ‘Chess For Blind’ initiative, Kenya can provide both children and adults the opportunity to compete at the international level. “I look forward to witnessing Kenya’s representation at the IBCA (International Braille Chess Association) Chess Olympiad for Blind and Visually Impaired. It is my vision that soon chess will be mainstreamed into the education sector. I particularly look forward to initiating a chess training programme for those with learning disabilities who would gain concentration and decision-making skills that they could transfer to academic subjects like mathematics.” Another of her dreams is to see chess penetrating into the counties saying that this would require collaborative efforts of the relevant policy makers and departments, both primary and secondary schools, relevant associations, parents and the private sector. “The federation can benefit from aligning itself accordingly in order to benefit from the opportunities that the players in the counties can offer, especially in terms of administration, technical and mobilization support. They are and have all along been our footprint,” she concludes.  