The new rules on zoning of sugarcane growing are attracting both support and opposition from leaders with private millers being against the regulations. So far, former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale has been leading campaigns in the region opposing the proposal which he claims will affect private millers supporting the economy of the area after the two State-owned millers, Mumias and Nzoia, sunk in debt. Dr Khalwale insisted that cane farmers, just like maize growers, should be left to find their own market. "The regulations will impact negatively on thousands of farmers who toil to produce cane on their farms, especially in areas where millers are grappling with their operations," he said as Cotu boss Francis Atwoli led a group of leaders to support the initiative. REVIEW POLICIES “For Chemelil, Muhoroni, Mumias and other government supported sugar companies to keep on grinding we must have zoning in place and we should all support it.,” Mr Atwoli told a gathering in Kisumu. “There must be a mechanism of keeping away sugar cane poachers who leave local industries with no cane,” he said. In the recently gazetted regulations, there is a proposal to review agriculture policies in consultation with cane farmers. In the rules, county governments will be involved in demarcation of new plantation boundaries for the various millers in Nyando, Transmara, South Nyanza, Coastal and Western sugar belts. SUGAR FACTORIES On Monday, Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga told the Nation that they had argued for zoning as one of the policy changes for counties to take on the role of managing State-owned millers. He said the Lake Region Economic Bloc was pulling resources together to and will partner with investors to run sugar factories in the bloc. Mumias Sugar Company acting managing director Patrick Chebos said zoning will ensure each miller develops own cane and work with farmers without encroachment from another operated. Kakamega deputy governor Philip Kutima said the rule will only affect farmers who are contracted with millers. "The rest are free to take their cane to a factory of their choice," said Prof Kutima at Imbale secondary in Ikolomani sub-county.   Contraband sugar and excessive and irregular imports cited as challenges facing sugar milling companies.