Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko has denied being a beneficiary of the infamous Mau forest land allocations. For close to a decade, Mr Tobiko’s detractors have linked him with grabbing land in the water tower. The minister was confronted with the same question when he appeared before the National Assembly Environment Committee, chaired by Mbeere MP Kereke Mbiuki, over the status of the ongoing evictions. The matter was raised by committee vice chairperson and Ijara MP Sophia Noor, who said the panel has documents indicating that Mr Tobiko owns land in Mau forest. “Could you please come clean on reports that you own large tracts of land in Mau forest?” Ms Noor asked. PRODUCED FILES Mr Tobiko said he does not own any land in the entire Narok County. “I don’t own any land in Maasai Mau. I have never owned land there and I don’t intend to,” he told the committee. During his vetting by Parliament for the Director of Public Prosecutions position in 2011, Mr Tobiko answered the same question, posed by Ms Millie Odhiambo. Mr Tobiko produced files which he said showed that he had never been a beneficiary of Mau forest land allocations. With documents from the Registrar of Persons and other agencies, he explained that an individual who shared his name was the owner of the land in question. The documents, confirmed by the head of the interim coordinating secretariat of Mau Forest Complex Hassan Noor Hassan, indicated that a Mr Tobiko Mbuyok Keriako bought two plots from Mr David Lekuta ole Sulunye in Enakishomi group ranch. DIFFERENT NUMBERS The documents signed by the director of National Registration, RM Kimotho, indicated that the Tobikos were not related and that their identity cards had different numbers. “I have never applied for or entered into any transaction or arrangement with any person or groups for the allocation or transfer to me of any parcel of land in the Mau forest complex,” Mr Tobiko's letter to Mr Hassan said. After Mr Tobiko assuming office as Environment CS in June, a Nairobi resident petitioned him for not disclosing his relation with a customer involved in the irregular acquisition of forest land and part of Maasai Mara game reserve. Mr Blamuel Njururi said Mr Tobiko's law firm helped Mr Livingstone ole Ntutu to acquire 4,000 acres from the reserve irregularly.   Maasai elders call for the naming and punishment of illegal beneficiaries of forest land.