A case has been filed in the High Court seeking to stop Kenya Power company and the Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC) from implementing the new billing structure released recently. In the case, lawyer Apollo Mboya said the new structure discriminates against the poor and a significant majority of the domestic consumers while favouring the minority bulk power consumers such as manufacturers and companies. Mr Mboya, therefore, wants the court to suspend the implementation of the electricity retail tariffs pending the hearing of the application. The lawyer argued that both Kenya Power and ERC have no constitutional mandate to review electricity tariffs. The new harmonised structure came into effect as from August 1 for the pre-paid users and July 1, for those having post-paid meters. COURT ORDER But Mr Mboya argued that the move is a ploy both by Kenya Power and ERC to circumvent an order of the court which stopped them from recovering backdated bills amounting to Sh10.1 billion. The temporary orders were issued by Justice Chacha Mwita following an application by Mr Mboya and the Electricity Consumers Society. The lawyer said that Article 27 of the Constitution guarantees every person equal protection and equal benefit of the law and that the State shall not discriminate directly or indirectly against any persons. PAY MORE But under the new power tariffs announced by ERC on Monday, Mr Mboya said poor households that consume between 11 and 50 units per month will pay more, compared to those who consume more. The first 10kwh units of energy consumed by domestic consumers will now cost Sh12 each, up from Sh2.5 previously charged. The regulator removed the Sh150 fixed charge payable to Kenya Power for meter connection, saying this would do away with billing fluctuations. Mr Mboya said the new move means that for the first ten units, a consumer will now part with Sh120 up from Sh25. And for the next 40 units, the company will earn Sh15.80 per unit from the domestic user, up from Sh2.5 previously charged, meaning they will pay Sh632 instead of Sh100, which is a 600 percent increase. But bulk commercial consumers will part with Sh15.80 per unit from Sh13.5 which they were paying previously.   The tariff review by the Energy Regulatory Commission sought to remove billing fluctuations.