Rightly or wrongly, readers find some headlines annoying. What annoys most are headlines that are perceived to be misleading, vague, confusing, meaningless, or demeaning. For example, some readers were annoyed by the headline, Coast TV girl Uhuru’s new spokesperson, announcing the appointment of Kanze Dena as the deputy State House spokesperson. Parents magazine editor Lily Ronoh-Waweru thought the headline was demeaning as it used the term “girl” to refer to a grown woman. She wrote: “It’s simply offensive to refer to an experienced woman who has landed a top job in the country as a mere TV girl. CONFUSING “It’s not only demeaning but also infantilises the woman in question. It also sort of disempowers her and downplays the hard work she has put to be where she is.” Lawrence Kamau found the headline, Journalist and preacher hacked to death(Daily Nation, August 14, 2018) annoying because, he said, just reading the headline, one would think two different people were killed. “Yet, when one reads the rest of the news item, it dawns (on them) that it’s only one person who died. This person was both a journalist and a preacher.” Mbugua G.K. of Ethics Watch Kenya said the headline, Was it murder or suicide? The curious case of Gerald (Daily Nation, June 25, 2018) was annoying because the story does not mention anything about murder. Dr Patrick Mbataru of Kenyatta University picked three headlines in the latest Sunday Nation which he said were annoying because they were vague, confusing or meaningless. One of the headlines read: Brad Pitt ‘not child paying support’. MEANINGLESS Headlines are guaranteed to annoy readers when they are deceptive. James Ndirangu, for example, took to task columnist Gladys Burini for the headline, World Cup showed team effort is better than individual skill (Saturday Nation, July 21, 2018), saying it promised team analysis that was not in her article. I think the headline correctly reflected the theme of the story, captured in her statement that “football is not a one-man game” and in her concluding sentence: “You can be the greatest there ever was at club level but it doesn’t always directly translate at the international level without an equally good or greater team”. But Mr Ndirangu thought otherwise and chewed her for what he said was a misleading headline. He said the article “made one anticipate an analysis on teamwork” but that was not delivered. ANTONYMNS Mr Ndirangu said the piece was “well written” but there was no mention of Croatia, “a team that defied all odds to reach the finals and a team that exhibited teamwork and resilience.” Ms Burini insisted that her article was “dealing with superlative antonyms and Croatia isn’t in this category”. In any case, she said correctly, the editor, not her, wrote the headline. Writers and reporters do not write the headlines. And even when they do and the editor likes the headline and uses it, it is still regarded as the editor’s headline because editors are responsible for headlines. Editors, not writers or reporters, write the headlines because only they, theoretically at any rate, know how prominently the story will be presented on the page and the allocated space. They decide, for example, whether the headline will be splashed across a page or confined to a column or two. INSIGHTFUL Because of this practice, editors and sub-editors have become experts in headline writing. Those who are really good write punchy, catchy, poetic, attention-getting, insightful, instructive, incentive, luring, fishing, baiting and hooking headlines that sell newspapers. Good headline writers are a valuable asset in any newspaper. They write entertaining, pithy and clever headlines in limited spaces. There are many examples but one recent headline, How Uhuru's Sh2bn got lost in the forest (Daily Nation, May 28, 2018), should suffice. It is shows cleverly, and perhaps in an entertaining manner, how Sh2 billion allocated to a project launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta to plant trees in public schools was stolen. These expert headline writers are the ones who should take blame for any headline that annoys you, not reporters. Please do not chew columnists or reporters as they are blameless. Instead, crucify the editors. Send your complaints to publiceditor@ke.nationmedia.com. Call or text 0721 989 264.   Editors, not writers or reporters, write the headlines.