We see it on television every year at this time: Eighteen-year-old girls and boys jumping with joy as they wave their successful A-level exam results in the air. What the cameras tactfully ignore are those students despondently perusing the Bs, Cs, and Ds they were awarded instead of the As and A*s they had hoped for. General Certificate of Education Advanced level exams, the equivalent of the KCSE in Kenya, are seen by many teachers, pupils and parents as career-defining, even life-determining, milestones. This is an attitude which many “failures” have proved to be wrong. ABJECT FAILURE A poor result is not the end of the world. Experts say it is often a blessing in disguise, pointing the boy or girl away from a wrong-headed ambition to an area where they may expect outstanding success. Take Fred Weller. He planned to study medicine, for which he needed three As. He got three Bs. He told The Observer newspaper last week, “When I got my results, my life stretched before me like a black hole. In my mind, I was an abject failure.” His mother thought differently. She reminded him how, as a boy, he had loved learning about the Greeks and Romans. Accordingly, he turned to the Classics, received a Bachelor of Arts degree and is now studying for a Master’s. VERY UPSET A very African slant on education is demonstrated by the story of Steven Bartlett, born in Botswana of a British father and an African mother, and raised in Plymouth. Steven received a B, C and D. “I grew up very poor,” he said. “My mum left school in Africa at the age of seven and can’t read or write. She was very upset about my grades. She had a very narrow view of what success was and stopped speaking to me. In her view, as long as I succeeded in education, I would be OK. It all comes down to perspective.” INFLUENCING PEOPLE Steven, too, was disappointed, but he knew he was good at influencing people and he cofounded the Social Chain Group, which became Europe’s largest social media marketing company, with offices in Munich, Berlin, Manchester, London and New York. He is the Chief Executive Officer and a multimillionaire. He said, “I think the only real danger of getting a bad A-level result is letting a bad grade get to you. You can pull yourself from some of the darkest places. If you have the right drive and determination, it can be done.” * * * A bane of modern life here is the “Health and Safety” mania, rules and warnings from companies or authorities fearful of being sued if something goes wrong. Thus on escalators, we are advised to “Stand to the right and hold onto the hand rail.” On the London Underground it is, “Mind the gap” (between train and platform), and in public toilets we see “Caution: Very hot water!” But at least these are only advisories, whereas in some workplaces rules have been introduced that boggle the mind. Some companies only provide plastic knives and forks, forbid birthday cake candles and don’t let staff change light bulbs. Others ban the wearing of shorts and flip-flops and insist that employees tuck in their shirts when using a paper shredder. * ** Tom Locke was on the roof of his house inspecting pigeon nests when he fell from the ladder, plummeting three stories onto the patio. He broke his leg, arm, wrist, shoulder and every bone in his face. But rather than being taken to a hospital near his home in Hythe, Kent, he was flown swiftly by air ambulance to London’s King’s College Hospital more than 60 miles away. Doctors say the move “undoubtedly” saved his life. King’s is a designated major trauma centre with specialists available round the clock for life-threatening injuries. England now has 27 of these specialist centres following a national reorganisation, all with quick access to scans and treatment to stop severe bleeding. Mr Locke, aged 41, was unconscious for two days and then underwent a series of operations. That was last October. Today, he is back playing squash, riding his bike and going to the gym. * * * As the name suggests, a Jobcentre is where unemployed people go in the hope of getting a job. It gave rise to what was voted the best joke by any comedian at this year’s Edinburgh Fringe Festival. From Adam Rowe: “Working at the Jobcentre has to be a tense situation, knowing that if you get fired you still have to come in next day.” * * * There are times when Health & Safety situations can be approached with humour, as for instance the notice above a low doorway, “Bang Head Here.” Also: “Children left unattended will be sold to the circus,” and “Beware the dog: You might get in but you won’t get out again.” Gerryo69@hotmail.com  