Members of Parliament have once again rejected the report on contraband sugar, arguing that the joint committee on Trade and Agriculture was compromised and did not establish whether the product on sale is safe. The MPs claimed that there was a well-organised and elaborate plot to discredit the report. The legislators, led by Majority Leader Aden Duale, further said that Cabinet secretaries Henry Rotich (National Treasury) and Adan Mohamed (East African Community), and their former colleague Willy Bett (Agriculture) were unfairly implicated in the scandal. EXECUTIVE ORDER Minority Leader John Mbadi opened the floor defending Mr Rotich and Mr Bett. Mr Mbadi said although he has problems with Mr Rotich's performance, he is "clean" on the sugar scandal. "You cannot intimidate and blackmail me. I am a senior member of this house. There is nothing in this report that implicates Mr Rotich. Let us not play politics and debate," he said. Mr Duale also shielded the ministers from blame, asking his colleagues not to indict Cabinet secretaries and other public officers through a public court. "Mr Rotich acted on an Executive Order from the President. He acted on a crisis the country was facing then. "Members today are behaving like they have taken mercury, nobody wants to listen to the other," Mr Duale said. HONEST WORK However, joint committee on Trade and Agriculture co-chairperson Kanini Kega said the report is credible. "If members had properly read and interrogated the report, they would have realized that some of the questions naively asked have been answered. As the captain of the committee, I stand by the report," Mr Kega said. He decried that the MPs chose to focus on the role the Cabinet secretaries played at the expense of the priorities. "We have delivered a bouncing baby boy. It’s upon the house to kill the baby or suckle it to ensure that he sees tomorrow. Don’t throw away the document simply because of what you heard yesterday," he said.   Kega blames lawyers who drafted the report for the wording error saying it had been amended.