Q. I recently got promoted to a senior role in my company. At first I was very excited over my big career change and moved into the role with a lot of passion. I have since held various meetings with my team to review our plans and processes ready to prove my supervisor right for picking me for the role. Three months on the role I discovered that my salary is half of what my peers are earning. Since then, my enthusiasm has dipped and I feel short-changed by the organisation, especially my boss. I am disappointed to the extent I want to quit. What is the best approach to raise my concerns before I give up on a job I really like?  Do not give up just yet. Instead, raise your concerns with your boss. In my interactions with employees, I have come to know for a fact that raising concerns of this nature is not always easy. I am sure thoughts like ‘I do not want to seem ungrateful’ or ‘perhaps I should prove myself first before raising such a grievance’ or ‘my peers have been on the role longer and deserve higher pay’ have crossed your mind. The list can be long, and will only create more self-doubt and diminish your confidence. What you need to do is to silence that apologetic voice and speak up boldly. In your discussion, focus on equitable compensation for work of similar scope, complexity and responsibilities. To expect that employees will earn exact salary for same work is unrealistic as differences may arise from experience and length of employment. But to earn half of what your colleagues are paid while performing similar work is totally unfair and a serious oversight by your employer. Ordinarily, employers have pay scales that are created after ascertaining worth of each job through an evaluation. Whereas such scales may have some overlaps for reasons important to each employer, any gaps that encourage pay differences as stated in your case are flawed and may need review. The challenge maybe that when you accepted your promotion, you trusted your employer to provide the right compensation structure and accepted what was given without question. While this may seem polite, you should make a point to negotiate every promotion like a new job, because indeed it is. If this is the case, you may approach the discussion from a reflection point of view, “now that I have handled the role for three months, I find that it is highly complex and whereas I am excited and able to deliver, I am concerned that the salary offered is not commensurate to the scope and expectations of the role and I would like to have this rectified”. Finally, be sure that your facts are right, do not put your credibility at risk. *** Do you have a question? Send it to our team: mynetwork@ke.nationmedia.com   The minimum redundancy package is two weeks’ salary for every completed year of service.