The Mombasa County government will issue a report on the construction of a multimillion shilling hotel said to have encroached on a public beach, where two Nation Media Group journalists were beaten up and arrested last Thursday. Lands Executive Edward Nyale said the report, to be issued on Tuesday, will show whether Dolphin Hotel has blocked access roads to a public beach in Shanzu. Mr Nyale said surveyors are compiling the report. “The officers begun work on Friday and we expect the report to be ready by tomorrow. The survey report is the most important thing,” he said. Mr Nyale did not divulge preliminary findings of the survey. REPORTERS ARRESTED He said surveyors have been on the ground investigating the matter since the issue came to public domain. When he toured the site on Friday, Mr Nyale hinted at the likelihood of halting the construction of the hotel should it turn out that it encroached on the beach. The issue came to the limelight on Thursday when two Nation journalists were assaulted and arrested while filming and photographing an excavator scooping sand on the sea after it emerged that the developer was encroaching on the Indian Ocean. The journalists recorded statements at Bamburi police station. However, no action has been taken against the security officers who assaulted the journalists despite Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinett ordering an immediate probe into the incident. SEA LAND RECLAMATION Acting under instructions of a Mr J Baptist, warders guarding the site roughed up, handcuffed and detained the scribes before bundling them onto a police vehicle and taking them to Bamburi police station. The warders have been providing a 24-hour watch at the site, with two working on day shift and two at night. The construction of Dolphin Hotel has been going on for two years, with reclamation of the sea heightening two months ago. The debate surrounding the hotel started two years ago when its construction was halted after residents protested over the blocking of access roads to the beach by the contractor. Avco Agencies Limited was stopped by Mombasa County from proceeding with the construction for dumping debris on a public road, thus blocking access to the public beach. WESTON According to available documents from the county lands office, the construction is being carried out on a 3.28 hectares (approximately eight acres) piece of land. It has also emerged that the beach hotel was registered under Weston Hotel, which had requested for its alteration and construction under registration number NEMA/EIA/PSR/6347. The National Environmental Management Authority, Mombasa County Government and National Construction Authority had approved the construction of the hotel. The construction of the three-storey hotel is estimated to cost Sh600 million. Documents show it is being constructed on a parcel of land that has a lease of 95 years.   Nema will return to the site next week to check whether the developer has complied.