A little wave was bobbing along in the ocean and was having a grand old time. He was enjoying the wind and the fresh air as it travelled – until he noticed that all the other waves in front of him were crashing against the shore. “Oh My God, this is terrible”, the little wave thought. “Look what is happening to all the other waves and I will have to face the same fate!” When the little wave was in the state of panic another wave came across and asked the little wave, “Why are you distressed my friend?” The little wave said, “We are all going to crash against the shore and face our end! All of us waves are going to be nothing! Isn’t it terrible?” The second wave answered with a smile, “No, you don’t understand. You’re not just a wave, you are part of the ocean.” Most of us tend to undermine ourselves as we feel we are either worth too little or have not achieved enough to give value to ourselves. Each of us is worth what we are, the universe has a bigger plan with why we are meant to be here doing what we are doing. You don’t need anyone’s approval or acceptance of how valuable you are. THINK BIG “You yourself, as much as anybody in the entire universe, deserve your love and affection.” ~Buddha Think big, believe big, act big and the results will be big: Everything starts from your mind, if you think you are small, you tend to make small steps. If all starts with what you have in mind, we become what we think. When you can think big, you can act big (you can start small, scale fast) and expect big results. The secret of success is the constancy of the purpose: Purpose is why you exist. Don’t get bogged down by small setbacks and obstacles. When your focus is on your purpose, you invest on yourself and on continuous improvement. TAKE RISK Take risks and ask big questions: Never shy away from making mistakes. Make mistakes, learn from them and move on. If you don’t make mistakes you are not trying enough. Mistakes give you learning, experience and wisdom. Stop giving discounts: Not everyone who come into your life is to add value to your purpose. It is only when you know how much your worth is that you will stop giving discounts to people, so invest good time on identifying what you are worth. Focus on your weakness as much as your strengths: As they say you will never know your strengths until you have faced your struggles and accepted your weakness. Sometimes your biggest strength can be how you understand, accept, fight and resolve your weakness.  