A Nairobi court has issued warrants of arrest against four suspects linked to the loss of Sh468 million at the National Youth Service (NYS). The four, including Mr Charles Makau Mulandi, a former member of the verification committee at NYS, Mr Samuel Otieno, described as an invoicer at NYS, Mr Patrick Obunya, a former staff at NYS, and Mr Humphrey Odhiambo, who are still at large. 2 COUNTS A fifth suspect, Mr Ezekiel Ombasso Osoro, on Wednesday denied two counts before Senior Principal Magistrate Lucas Onyina, more than two months since his co-accused were charged. This brings to 51 the number of suspects so far charged with the loss of the funds at the agency. Mr Osoro was released on personal bond of Sh5 million, two sureties of Sh2 million and cash bail of Sh1 million. The last batch of three files were mentioned Thursday before Mr Onyina who set the hearing for February next year. Seven other files will be handled by Chief Magistrate Douglas Ogoti and Peter Ooko, who will start the trial on October 29 and January 7, respectively. Mr Ogoti will handle four files while Mr Ooko will handle three files. Mr Onyina directed the parties to appear before him on November 6 for a mention so that the charge sheet can be amended and files consolidated. The accused face multiple charges of conspiracy to commit an economic crime, abuse of office and wilful failure to comply with procedures and guidelines relating to public financial management. TRADERS Former Youth Affairs PS Lilian Mbogo Omollo and former NYS Director-General Richard Ndubai and 28 other former government officials appear in all the files, while the traders, who allegedly benefitted from the dealing at the agency, appear in different files. The traders include Ameri Traders, belonging to James Katululu and George Mvuli, who allegedly received Sh28,766, Ms Catherine Kamuyu and Sarah Murugu of Ersatz Enterprises who allegedly received Sh26.6 million for goods not supplied, Ms Ann Wambere Wanjiku of Annwaw Investments who allegedly received Sh59.8 million and Lucy Wambui Ngirita of Waluko Investment, Phyliis Njeri Ngirita and Jeremiah Gichini Ngirita of Jerrycathy Enterprises who allegedly received Sh72.2 million for goods not supplied. Others are Anderine Grace Nyambura of Kalabash Food Supplies who allegedly received Sh9 million from NYS, Firstling, whose directors are Kenneth Mwathi Mburu, James Thuita Nderitu and Yvonne Wanjiku, and are accused of corruptly receiving Sh115.5 for goods not supplied. Mr Peter Wagurah Kimani and Anthony Makara Wamiti of Arkroad Holdings limited allegedly received Sh24.8 million while Ms Catherine Wanjiku Mwai of Kunjiwa Enterprises is accused of receiving Sh23.4 million. The magistrates said the trial will be conducted on a day-to-day basis, once the hearing starts.   Assets Recovery Agency is free to scrutinise accounts statements from inception to date