President Uhuru Kenyatta has since last year pronounced himself on the 'Big Four’ agenda of health, food security, manufacturing and housing as the key focus to seal his legacy by 2022. This is certainly ambitious and forward-looking and most Kenyans identify with these very noble aspirations. However, corruption is the underbelly of the Presidents’ agenda. We are all excited with the move against corruption and look forward to convictions and recovery of billions of shillings allegedly stolen from the public coffers by the ever-lengthening list of perpetrators. But corruption is not uniquely Kenyan: The UN Convention Against Corruption was ratified in 2005. 100 MILLION DOLLARS Dr Mahathir Mohamad was, at 93, recently elected Prime Minister of Malaysia against an incumbent accused of running down the Asian country through an unprecedented corrupt system after inheriting a vibrant, thriving and robust economy. It is also alleged that, at the time of his ouster, over $100 million was found at his home. In addition, the United States is after the man for $4 billion stashed in foreign countries, allegedly acquired through illicit and corrupt means. This is a nation where, less than 15 years ago, minimal corruption prevailed when Dr Mohamad was the premier. INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY Some nations have had considerable success against graft — such as Singapore and Norway, which are relatively above board as far as the corruption scourge is concerned. There are different degrees of corruption with extremes cases in Africa. But the distinguishing factor in the success against corruption among countries is their institutional capacity to deal with the menace. In the case of Kenya, way back in 1971, when the Ndegwa commission recommended that involvement of civil servants in business was not inconsistent with the Constitution and the laws, it allowed the few talented Kenyans then, who were mainly from public service, to engage in private business due to the relative inexperience of the vast majority of Kenyans, coming from a colonial environment. BUSINESS LANDSCAPE The alternative was to accept the status quo, where Indians and Europeans would continue to dominate the business landscape. However, a review of the subsequent auditor-general’s reports, Public Accounts Committees and Public investment Committees’ reports shows a litany of cases that demonstrate glaring evidence of theft of public resources by known culprits but without either punitive or retributive sanction taken against them. That has emboldened a culture of plundering of public resources. But to enhance the mission of combating the corruption, the 2010 Constitution has separation of functions between the office of the Attorney-General and Department of Justice and that of the Office of the Director of Public Prosecution, which became responsible for the criminal justice system. HIGH-PROFILE CASES Under the previous DPP, there was nothing to write home about. Nevertheless, the DPP, Director of Criminal Investigation (DCI), Attorney-General and Solicitor-General offices have new appointees. Surprisingly, the outcome is extremely high-profile prosecutions like no other. The President has publicly stated that the war against corruption has, ironically, cost him friends! It had better. Why? The speed at which Kenya has been on self-destruct due to the runaway corruption was frightening but, all of a sudden, there seems to be a ray of hope, given the concrete actions being taken to rein in the menace. Hopefully, the President will continue to be emboldened in his declared mission to rid the country of the scourge with all its manifestations so that, at retirement, he will have achieved for the country the greatest objective of consolidation of our nationhood free of the vice. END IMPUNITY The ongoing demolitions of expensive structures built on riparian land is a war against impunity. The President should sit in comfort, knowing that his bold actions are consistent with Article 62 of the Constitution and should be extended to all those buildings on public land including schools, hospitals, playgrounds and roads. This will bring to an end impunity and lack of respect for the rule of law for the benefit of future generations. The President need not achieve the Big Four; winning the war against impunity will have restored the glory of our nationhood and that will seal for him the greatest legacy he could ever wish to have. Mr Kabage is an advocate of the High Court of Kenya. kabage@pacific-group.co.ke.  