A Senate committee has been given seven days to provide details on claims that some of its members tried to solicit millions of shillings from a Nairobi businessman to influence the outcome of an investigation. Mr Francis Mburu, who claims ownership of land on which Ruaraka High and Drive Inn Primary schools stand, has alleged that members of the County Public Accounts and Investments Committee demanded a Sh100 million bribe to make a favourable determination in their investigation on the controversy surrounding the land. ADEQUATE INFORMATION The Powers and Privileges committee of the Senate, chaired by Speaker Kenneth Lusaka, told reporters on Wednesday that the allegations made by Mr Mburu are grave and have the prospect of undermining public confidence in the House. During a press conference at Parliament Buildings, the House Speaker said they had taken the decision to seek information from the chairman of the committee, Mr Moses Kajwang', because “Parliament does not act on media reports”. “After deliberations, the committee has taken the position that the matter is serious and is one that is suitable for inquiry by the committee within the meaning of section 15(5) of the Parliamentary Powers and Privileges Act when presented with adequate information on the basis of which to commence the inquiry,” Mr Lusaka said. FILED COMPLAINT However, the Nation learnt that the committee found itself in a quandary after Mr Mburu filed before it two contrasting letters that forced it to take the unprecedented decision. According to the source, the first of Mr Mburu’s letter accuses three senators of misconduct while another letter absolves another senator from any claim of wrongdoing. The committee expressed concern in the anomaly, questioning how the accuser could exonerate the senator when he had not filed a complaint in the first place. DIVERT ATTENTION The Public Accounts committee has been investigating circumstances under which the land changed hands culminating in the government paying Sh1.5 billion for it. Mr Kajwang’ last week denied allegations that some of the committee members tried to solicit for bribes to influence the outcome of the investigation into the ownership of the Sh3.3 billion land. He said the claim by Mr Mburu was a plot to divert attention from the war against corruption.   Kajwang’ says Mburu's claim is a plot to divert attention in the war against corruption.