IN MUSANZE, RWANDA Kenya boys’ football champions Kakamega High School aka Green Commandos on Thursday stayed on course to securing their Brookside East Africa Secondary School Games maiden crown after topping their group on day five here. The Green Commandos ended their pool matches with a 1-1 draw against Rwandan side CIP Muhanga after two earlier wins to collect seven points. Kakamega, who finished third in last year’s showpiece in Gulu, Uganda, will play the runners-up of Pool B in Friday’s first semi-final clash for a place in Sunday’s final. In Thursday’s encounter, the 13-time Kenyan champions fell behind to Jean Hirwa’s 28th minute volley, before missing a chance of their own minutes later as Henry Atola failed to connect with Evans Odhiambo’s crisp cross with only the keeper to beat. Kakamega rallied in the second half to level matters in the 54th minute as captain and Gor Mahia Under-20 skipper Chris Alpha Onyango beat Muhanga goalkeeper Emmanuel Inalokunda from the spot. Both sides had chances to win the game but were denied by brilliant goalkeeping either end. Kakamega had recorded identical 3-0 wins in their opening two matches against Uganda’s B.S. Kimanya and Rwanda’s College Karambi. Skipper Onyango believes they still need to improve if they wish to go all the way to Sunday’s final. Siaya County’s Barding’ was the last Kenyan side to win the title in 2016 in Eldoret. “The semis will be tough as we could face champions Kitende or Buddo which are both good sides. We have got to put away our chances so that we avoid chasing games which in the end drains us a lot,” he said. Kenya’s second football team Olbolosat had a debut to forget as they crashed out after two successive losses in Pool A. On Wednesday, they were handed a 10-0 thrashing by Buddo to add to their 1-0 loss to Rwanda’s LDK on Monday. In girls’ football, Kenya’s Nginda Girls lost 2-0 to Uganda’s Gaddafi Integrated in a Pool B tie. The Kenyan girls will need to win their final match against Mukono High of Uganda Friday to advance to the semis. Nginda, who finished third at the nationals, are on six points after two wins in the pool. Kenya champions Kwale Girls secured a 2-0 win over Kawempe Muslim of Uganda in Pool A thanks to a brace from Elizabeth Katungwa to also keep their semi-final hopes alive. They take on St Noah of Uganda in their final pool match Friday knowing that a win will secure them a last four slot.   Rwandan side Adegi take on College Gisenyi in boys’ handball semis.