The Kenya National Union of Teachers has threatened that teachers might go on strike from September 1, halting the start of third term. The union wants the Teachers Service Commission to scrap off the performance appraisal and delocalization policies. Assistant Secretary-General Collins Oyuu said the TSC introduced the policies before consulting them. "If the TSC does not listen to us on August 21, we shall say enough is enough and down our tools come September 1. We will not open schools. "We love industrial peace but TSC has remained adamant and bitter with the same teachers it has employed," Mr Oyuu said during their annual general meeting in Mombasa on Saturday. PROMOTIONSHe said delocalization has affected teachers and learner’s performance in the affected schools. "Out of 70 schools that were affected by fires 58 of them had new principals. Schools are burning due to delocalization," he claimed. Mr Oyuu said despite the teachers using their own money in furthering their studies, most of them do not get promotions. "In the constitution devolved services come to the grassroots. Teachers have not been promoted despite having attained higher academic qualifications." He also urged the Kenya Primary Schools Head Teachers Association and the Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association to join their cause. "All teachers are the same. We belong to the same profession. Let them hear from Sossion (secretary-general). If we pool together we are going to succeed," he said. SCHOOL UNIFORM Also, Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers Mombasa Executive Secretary Lynette Kamadi termed delocalisation as intimidating. "It is intimidating and primitive. Look at the rhinos that died due to delocalisation. If possible let us cooperate so we can achieve what we want," she said. Regarding the proposal to have all secondary school students wear the same uniforms, Knut's Mombasa branch chairman Johnson Kibuga said it is a bad idea because it will be difficult to tell them apart. "If implemented we believe this same uniform policy may cause confusion in schools and homes. "Schools will lose their individual identities while students may choose to make more mistakes since it would be difficult to identify them and even their schools," he said. The meeting was graced by Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir and Woman Representative Asha Mohammed Hussein; they promised to support the teachers.   Knut says teachers are spending a lot of time in cyber cafes downloading forms.