I am happy to report that, in the spirit of the Building Tummies initiative following the handshake between our respective national benefactors in March, my dog, Sigmund, and I will finally be joining the Cabinet when your radio announces another reorganisation of the government to “improve efficiency and service delivery to Kenyans|". I’ve already given my “thank you in advance ” to a BIG man’s aide organising these appointments and pledged to be sending through him regular donations towards projects of our boss’s choice. In return, he has promised me the position of Cabinet Secretary (CS) for the newly created Ministry of Big Four and Infinite Other Wondrous Wonders. For now, my dear friends, you can just address me as Bwana CS-expecting —all protocols observed.  Hon Sigmund here prefers for himself the much simpler “Bwana Waziri-Mtarajia.” VIAGRA OVERDOSE As a true Kenyan public servant united with the rest of the country in the fight against graft and other social foibles, I’ve put aside a couple of millions to give to MPs, so not too many questions are asked during my vetting. Hon Sigmund will be in charge of the Ministry of Barking without Biting. He has also been promised promotion to an ambassadorship (in China, we both hope) in the event of a national outcry over his habit of urinating in public with a hind leg raised in the air and telling Kenyans to go to hell when they complain about anything and then blaming his emotions for his emotions. Kenyan youths, who have been chewing miraa all day instead of seeking gainful employment in the booming economies of their ghettos, don’t deserve any job. Hon Sigmund can still do such work in spite of his advanced age, impaired judgement from frequent marijuana smoking, sciatica, erectile dysfunction, arthritis, an addiction to other people’s wives, dyed hair, possible sudden death from a Viagra overdose, etc. LOW-BUDGET ARTICLES Hon Sigmund (yelling): Keep my name out of your low-budget articles, Mr Innuendo. I took Viagra only once. I’ll one day tell everyone that you... Me (ignoring Sigmund’s barks): Furthermore, Kenyan youths are as tribalistic as their toothless grandmothers in the village and are not likely to cause any trouble for us unless they are told to kill one another by either of the hand-shaking duo. The “Building Tummies” reshuffle is meant to redistribute the national cake among elites from various Kenyan tribal vote baskets in preparation for 2022 elections. It’s also to allegedly fight corruption, as if, to paraphrase a source close to my friend (no pun intended), there’s any politician in Kenya who hasn’t benefitted from corruption since the days of Jomo. EXPENSIVE MEALS It takes quite some effort to adjust to a new life of privilege like the one awaiting me, ladies and gentlemen. For security and other reasons, I'll no longer be frequenting Karumaindo with you. To be sure, I last week attended a meeting in a secluded hotel abroad to discuss ways of solving your many problems and accustom myself to my forthcoming status as a senior state officer. I was the only nyeuthi (black person) present at that international meeting, but like a Kenyan official I can act civilised whenever my appetite for free expensive meals demands.  All was well, especially because of the numerous coffee-and-cookie breaks. Then this one bearded professor started reading from a PowerPoint slide (after pausing for water):  “Kenyans can no longer depend solely on the Executive, Legislative, and Judiciary branches for the necessary reforms. Everyone is 'eating' and they are doing so rather brazenly with gulps of larger and larger portions, knowing they can do so with impunity —Prof Kempe Ronald Hope Sr (personal interview).” Being a patriot who fully supports the “Building Tummies” initiative and who can easily lose the upcoming appointment if suspected to be cavorting with government critics, I left that conference in a huff. Nkt! DOG WEEEPING That was even before they served us dinner, which was to be Chicken Saltimbocca, stuffed with fontina cheese and wrapped with prosciutto, parmesan risotto, and mushroom marsala sauce. When I came back home, I found my dog weeping. Hon me: (pretending to be upbeat and attempting a high five, which aborts) Hello, Bwana Waziri-Mtarajia! Hon Sigmund: (sobbing) Do you have 50 cents I can borrow? Hon me: No, I don’t listen to such music. I’m a Rick Ross guy. LIFE SAVINGS Hon Sigmund: (sniffling) To play lotto. Will repay as soon as I float my first tender. (deep bow. sounding increasingly desperate) As sure as a dog chews a bone I’ll steal and pay you. Hon me: Broke? Socialite girls are not good for an old dog’s pocket. Let’s stick to our Karumaindo friends. We can upgrade once in office. Hon Sigmund: (inconsolable) Gave all my life savings to the cabinet appointments guy. Says Boss needs 50M. How much did you give? (hands raised in the air like in a bank hold up). Now I’ve nothing on me. Hon me: Bora uhai, Sigmund! Let’s stay tuned for the breaking news. evanmwangi@gmail.com; twitter: @evanmwangi EDITOR'S NOTE: This is a satire piece.  