Deputy President William Ruto and Uganda President Yoweri Museveni on Sunday launched a 150km Kapchorwa-Suam road. The road will link Kenya to Uganda. Mr Ruto said the road will not only increase investment and trade between the two countries, but it will also ease movement of people. The Deputy President thanked the African Development Bank (AfDB) for financing road construction in the region. He asked local communities to shun consumption of local brews and invest in the education of their children. IMPROVE ACCESS Funded by Kenya, Uganda and the AfDB, the road is 77 kilometres long on the Kenyan side and 73 kilometres on the Ugandan side. President Museveni said the road would improve access and connectivity between the two countries besides stimulating cross-border trade.   He said the tarmacking of the Kapchorwa-Suam road, whose construction is expected to end in three years, would improve security along the Kenya-Uganda border. He asked locals to take advantage of the improved infrastructure and engage in income-generating activities. ENHANCE TRADE Earlier, the two leaders also deliberated on trade between Kenya and Uganda as well as integration issues in East Africa. The leaders said that there is need to create a favourable environment to enhance trade between Kenya and Uganda and other countries in the region. Mr Ruto said the leadership of President Uhuru Kenyatta and President Museveni made it possible for citizens of the two countries to work together. During a meeting with the private sector members from Uganda in Kampala, the Deputy President said that trade must drive relations and politics between countries. “Nationalism without Pan-Africanism is not beneficial. We live in a world that is full of challenges, especially youth unemployment and poverty; all these must be tackled by creating opportunities,” he said. TRADING BLOCS Mr Ruto challenged other leaders to work “progressively and consistently” to put the five-member trading bloc at par with bodies like the European Union. Mr Ruto said Africa should take advantage of the current wave of protectionism to fine-tune its trading blocs. To boost cross-border trade, the Deputy President said Kenya was investing heavily in roads and the energy sector. “We are not just building roads; we are also channelling resources in trans-boundary infrastructure,” he said. Leaders present included East African and Regional Development Cabinet Secretary Adan Mohamed, governors Prof John Lonyangapuo (West Pokot), Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia) and Josephat Nanok (Turkana), and MPs Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu) Robert Pukose (Endebess), several Ugandan lawmakers and Principal Secretary Chris Kiptoo. Also present were Ugandan ministers David Bahati (Finance) and Amelia Kyambadde (Trade and Co-operatives).  