A few years ago the Commission for University Education (CUE) replaced the previous Commission for Higher Education and significantly expanded its mandate to regulate all aspects of university education. Initial excitement and exuberance greeted this development in sections of the academy that were frustrated with the phenomenon of the counterfeit academic taking over the reins of leadership in our public and even private universities. COUNTERFEIT ACADEMIC The rein of the counterfeit academic began in the early 1980s when the State began systematically persecuting the intellectuals of the day, detaining some, killing others, and exiling the rest. The Ivory Tower was soon depleted and the barbarians who had previously been kept at bay outside the gates of the academy gained entry and kept the gates open for others of their breed. Soon entire departments were taken over by hordes of counterfeit academics, and the results are now plain for all to see. VILLAGE UNIVERSITIES The most prominent result of this vulgarisation of the university system in Kenya manifested in the attempt to build a university in every village. Our counterfeit academics composed a political praise-song titled “Bringing the University to the People”, forgetting that universities are meant to be the crucibles in which ideas are generated, hardened and repeatedly tested before being released to the unsuspecting public as finished products. Instead, our universities became glorified village polytechnics, competing with technical colleges and institutes in producing graduates with craft certificates and diplomas in mundane subjects. The counterfeit academic was at sea when required to justify his existence in the Ivory Tower, and to mitigate this, he created non-academic metrics to measure academic performance. The university thus became a commercial enterprise that measured its productivity in the number of students admitted and retained (thus paying tuition fees!) annually instead of looking at the number of patents and original publications produced annually. DEVIOUS BARBARIANS To the frustrated actual academics, the CUE appeared to swoop down like a knight in shining armour to save the academy from the marauding hordes of barbarians. What they did not reckon with is the fact the devious barbarians had already acquired positions within the supposed regulator, and, like Trojan horses, used their positions and influence to set its agenda. The result was that in its very first regulations, the commission set guidelines and standards that in many cases were not based on any evidence, and in some cases were just plain ridiculous. For instance, it came up with an outlandish appointment and promotion criteria for academic staff that none of its own senior staff, and very few of those working in the universities, could meet. FRAUDULENT RANGER These criteria privileged the potentially fraudulent lone ranger over the conscientious collaborative researcher, and was actually designed by the counterfeit academic for the benefit of the counterfeit academic. The CUE today stands as the prime example of the pitfalls of our obsession with form over substance, even unto our own demise. Lukoye Atwoli is Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Dean, Moi University School of Medicine; lukoye@gmail.com  