Baringo Senator Gideon Moi on Sunday told off those claiming that he is dividing the Kalenjin community. The Kanu chairman at the same time maintained that it was not time to engage in 2022 succession talk but to serve the people. “2022 ni neema ya mwenyezi mungu (2022 is by the grace of God). It's the people who will decide their political destiny,” Mr Moi said during a church service and funds drive in aid of Turesia AIC in Elgeyo Marakwet County. A section of Jubilee leaders has been accusing the Kanu chairman of being used by external forces to derail Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid. PRIORITIES In a veiled reference to 2022 politics, Senator Moi said: “I will follow the footprints of the cow. We will bring the cow home if we succeed. Cow’s milk is sweet, isn't it?" Mr Moi, who has in the recent past been involved in a protracted supremacy battle for the control of Rift Valley vote with the DP, was on Sunday categorical that 2022 succession talk is premature. He said there are more pressing issues affecting the country at the moment. “Let's put the people first. Rift Valley is currently grappling with a lot of challenges. Maize farmers are yet to be paid. Many farmers have a lot of maize but they have nowhere to sell to,” said senator Moi. FARMERS He lauded a bill currently before senate which will see overhaul of the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB), which he said will be a solution to many problems afflicting farmers. “It will see farmers paid on time for their delivered produce. Complaints every year will be a thing of the past,” he said. He hit out at a section of MPs for not fighting for the welfare of the people they represent in Parliament. Tiaty MP William Kamket lauded President Uhuru Kenyatta’s fight against corruption. “No one should be spared. The fight against corruption should be supported by all Kenyans,” Mr Kamket said. He said that Kanu is the party to watch in 2022 and called for all offices countrywide to be refurbished. “Please start painting Kanu offices. 2022 government is here,” the MP said in reference to senator Moi’s 2022 presidential bid. The Kanu chairman - who is yet to declare if he will vie for the presidency - steered off the issue.   He says ODM chief Raila Odinga has "abandoned opposition to join the Jubilee government”.