Blades are will look to extend their lead atop the Kenya Basketball Federation men's Premier League table when they confront tricky Umoja in their second leg match at United States International University of Africa in Nairobi this weekend. Coach Tonny Ochieng’s Blades head the standings with 21 points from nine matches won and three lost. Champions Kenya Ports Authority lie second on 20 points with an unbeaten record from 10 outings. Blades have nothing to worry them because KPA men and women’s teams will not be engaged in any assignments Saturday and Sunday. Umoja dropped a vital point when newcomers Lakeside shocked them 48-39 last weekend. Umoja coach Martin Okwako, who also play when things are tight, cannot afford to lose two matches in a row and will rely on forwards Wycliffe Olang, Nicolas Ogol and guard Allan Ouma to lead his offence play. Superstars forwards Fidel Okoth, Brian Onyango and guard Samuel Mogoko will be Blades’ key men to ensure they grab two vital points to boost their hopes of winning their maiden league title. Blades beat Umoja 65-45 in first leg. Coach Ochieng said: "We have been working on offensive and execution in scoring after losing to smaller rated opponents. We will miss the services of three players which will not affect our performance to garner two points." Blades were shocked 54-52 by underdogs World Hope last weekend. On Sunday at the same venue, former champion Ulinzi Warriors will be seeking to harvest maximum two points to move to second spot when they meet Trailblazers. Warriors are placed third on standings with 19 points and victory against Trailblazers will see them dislodge champions KPA from second spot with 21 points. Coach William Balozi’s Warriors have won eight matches and lost three. Trailblazers lost 35-44 to KCA-U last weekend and pressure will be on the hardworking Christopher Ogolla to lead them to their third victory this season. Trailblazers are second from bottom on the standings with 14 points from 10 loses and only two victories. After harvesting two critical points last weekend, KCA-U will tackle tough Equity Bank on Sunday starting at 4.30pm. Seasoned David Kitonga and Brian Ondari have the motivation to frustrate Equity Bank. But the bankers, led by Felix Omondi, who defeated Lakeside 52-46, will also battle bravely for victory to keep their impressive fourth position intact. In Saturday’s women’s Premier League tie, newcomers Footprints will face Masaku Sparks in their return leg tie expected to be explosive at 3pm. Footprints, coached by Juma Kent, defeated Masaku Sparks 46-41 in the first leg and will be seeking to complete the double. Sparks are bottom on the standings with 11 points after having lost all their 11 outings. Footprints sit ninth position on 12 points. In another women’s Division One league showdown, Gladiators will play Queens from 10.30am. In Saturday’s men’s Division One league, Barclays Bank will battle it out with Zetech Titans, 4-Christ meet Neosasa while debutantes Woodley Knights have a date with MKU Thika. Saturday: At USIU-A: Woodley Knights v MKU Thika (9am), Gladiators v Queens (10.30am), 4-Christ v Neosasa (12pm), Barclays Bank v Zetech University Titans (1.30pm), Masaku Sparks v Footprints (3pm) Sunday: Queens v Eldonets (9am), Strathmore University v Egerton University (10.30am), Little Prince v Riara University (12pm), Masaku Sparks v Zetech University (12pm), Zetech University Titans v Nakuru Club (1.30pm), Trailblazers v Ulinzi Warriors (3pm), Footprints v Equity Bank (3pm), Umoja v Blades (4.30pm), Equity Bank v KCA-U (4.30pm)  