President Uhuru Kenyatta has asked youths to seize opportunities offered by his government even as he acknowledged various challenges that continue to hinder their progress, among them unemployment. At Kisii High School, where he graced the International Youth Day Celebrations yesterday, the President reassured youths of his commitment to help better their livelihoods through various programmes that are youth-friendly. INNOVATIVE The President noted that three out of four Kenyans are below 35 years of age, are energetic and innovative, and only require a good economic environment and support to help the country develop. He outlined the benefits of the Ajira Digital Programme, which offers guidance on how to work online, stating that it is a game changer that will help accelerate economic growth in the country. He lauded the youth for emerging the best in Africa on the use of the digital technology to improve their livelihoods. OPPORTUNITY Over 5,000 youths attended the event which was organised by Ministry of Public Service, Gender and Youth Affairs in partnership with Kisii County Government. The celebrations in Kisii were part of the global events under the United Nations to address challenges facing the youth in the world. The function opened a discussion about how to allow the young people to come together and discuss problems affecting the society as well as allowing them to be part of mainstream decision-making. “Civic spaces enable youth to engage in governance issues. Public spaces afford youth the opportunity to participate in sports and other leisure activities in the community,” said President Kenyatta. Digital spaces help youth interact virtually across borders with everyone and well-planned physical spaces can help accommodate the needs of diverse youth especially those vulnerable to marginalisation or violence, he said. INTERNSHIP President Kenyatta said he was aware of the obstacles hindering youth development in the country and in measures to deal with them, he said his administration has set up and equipped more 70 technical and vocational institutions to help the youth acquire skills that can help them to be self-reliant. Various government agencies have set aside funds specifically for youths to start small businesses. He directed all government departments to be youth-sensitive, noting that he had rolled out the paid internship programme targeting to absorb 70,000 graduates in a period of five years, adding that more than 30,000 of those will receive grants to enable them start and grown business. SH6.6 BILLION Uwezo and Affirmative funds will be consolidated into a joint Biashara Fund to cut down operation costs and make them effective in offering loans to the youth. Uwezo kitty has offered Sh6.6 billion to more than 63,000 youths since it was launched in 2013, while the Affirmative fund has since disbursed Sh5.5 billion shillings to various groups. The President later addressed thousands of Kisii residents at Gusii stadium during the official opening of the weeklong inter-county games, which start today. Prof Margaret Kobia, CS Public Service and Youth Affairs, said her ministry will continue to support the youth. Chief Justice David Maraga and Interior CS Fred Matiang’i thanked President Kenyatta for touring Kisii and his continued support for young people. At least five governors attended the occasion among them James Ongwae, Mutahi Kahiga, John Nyagarama, Joyce Laboso, Alfred Mutua and Anyang’ Nyongo.   Kisii’s executive for sports Duke Mainga said all venues had been inspected and passed fit for the games.