Hayley Turner and her Girls team, bagged honours in the Dubai Duty Free Shergar Cup at Ascot. Turner, making a record 12th appearance in the annual competition, saw off the late challenge of Hong Kong-based Brazilian ace Joao Moreira, to win the Silver Saddle as top rider, by one point, 39-38. The Girls, comprising Turner, Hollie Doyle and their captain Josephine Gordon, landed this coveted prize with a points total of 76. Europe were second, on 70. FEMALE JOCKEYS Turner said:  'The progression of female jockeys is something that is really being pushed and discussed. This is a fine example of how well girls can do in racing. "Winning the Silver Saddle, named after the late Alistair Haggis - he was the one who got me on the team 12 years ago and really pushed me, so I think he is up there looking down on me. This is my favourite day of the year." The contest came down to the very last race, where Joao Moreira completed a double on Green Power (12-1) in the Sprint. However, Turner claimed second place on Roundhay Park, to seal the individual and team prizes. Moreira showed why he is revered in the Far East, as he brought the John Gallagher-trained colt to lead inside the final furlong and see off all challengers. GEORGE OF HEARTS Roundhay Park kept on stoutly to score by a neck with George Of Hearts a speck away in third. Moreira said: "It couldn't be any better. I'm extremely happy, saying many congratulations to Hayley's team. " Hollie Doyle grasped her first Shergar Cup, when steering Tis Marvellous to the Dash. Gracious John and Line Of Reason, followed closely. Doyle said: “It’s a massive deal for me to get the call-up (to ride at the Shergar Cup), let alone have a winner.” *** Back in Chicago, the slightly more serious Arlington Million, over 1 2 miles. saw a band of European visitors faring dismally in Chicago on Saturday, when the USA, claimed all three Grade 1 events during this auspicious International Festival of Racing. A single third place from Bandua in the Secretariat Stakes, was absolute best the visitors could muster, as they encountered champion trainer, Chad Brown, in especially intimidating form. Brown, who largely made his name with ex-European turf runners, recorded a 1-2-3 in the Beverly D Stakes led home by Sistercharlie, before Robert Bruce charged home, wide outside, to win by a half-length over stable companion Almanaa, in the Arlington Million. Century Dream put up a fine effort in the $1m feature as he attempted to make all under William Buick, only to wander back in third. He was later demoted to fourth behind Catcho En Die. RYAN MOORE On a miserable night for Ballydoyle, Deauville was a never-nearer sixth under Ryan Moore, while Jane Chapple-Hyam's, Circus Couture was eighth, ahead of Oscar Performance, who finished distressed. Beaten only once in nine career starts, Robert Bruce is a four-year-old son of Fast Company. He was sent off just a shade over 5-2 on the pari-mutuel, having been available at much bigger with British bookmakers.  