After a year in office, Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia undoubtedly knows the difference between being a politician and a top presidential appointee. The supremacy battles and back-stabbing in the region have refused to go away, frustrating the efforts of the soft-spoken former secretary to the Cabinet and head of public service. But despite the hostilities, religious leaders say the county is heading in the right direction, and that it is too early to judge Mr Kimemia. But his critics say he has failed to address the critical issues in his manifesto. NOMINEES The battle started soon after he was sworn into office on August 20 last year, when the County Public Service Board rejected his list of nominees for the positions of chief officers and instead wrote their own list, which Mr Kimemia refused to forward to the county Assembly for vetting and approval. To date, the governor is working with some inherited chief officers and has appointed others in an acting capacity, attracting the wrath of the CPSB, which wrote to the Speaker protesting the appointments. The list Mr Kimemia rejected had the names of some officers now facing corruption charges in court. BUDGET Mr Kimemia’s administration also appears to be held hostage by the Assembly, which is opposed to many of his initiatives. Recently, the budget-making was characterised by blackmail and delays after the Executive slashed the Assembly's budget to fund its priority projects. But Speaker Wahome Ndegwa maintains that the Assembly is not at war with the Executive, but is actively playing its oversight role. Meanwhile, religious leaders, led by Catholic Bishop Joseph Mbatia and Nyandarua County Council of Churches Chairman Josam Kariuki, say they are happy with Mr Kimemia's leadership. “We understand they had a problem when the budget was not approved by the Assembly, but I think now that they have a budget. "We have started seeing some positive impact. Roads have been graded, Ol Kalou town has been upgraded, and I believe with the money they will be able to do quite a lot,” Bishop Mbatia said. He added that the governor should focus more on the health sector and infrastructural development.   Mr Kimemia made himself scarce after ascending to office on August 21 last year.