Opposition leader Raila Odinga on Friday met with former Mungiki leader Maina Njenga when he hosted him for a briefing on his deal with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Mr Odinga hosted Mr Njenga who led a group of youth, community and religious leaders from Eastern, Rift Valley and Central Kenya — operating under the Amani Sasa Foundation — in paying him a courtesy call. The Opposition leader is said to have asked the group to ride on the handshake with President Kenyatta to help the country find lasting peace and stability. MEMORANDA Briefing the delegation, Mr Odinga said the handshake was a noble way to tackle problems like tribalism, marginalisation, corruption and divisive elections. He urged Kenyans to prepare to make submissions to the Building Bridges Initiative on the nine issues identified in the MoU with President Kenyatta in the same way they did in the search for a new Constitution. “We sat down as a nation with one destiny and presented views on how we want to be governed. "Through that process, we gave ourselves what is generally agreed to be a liberating constitution. "We want to come together again and refine some aspects of our life that still seem to trouble us as a nation. These include runaway corruption, tribalism, divisive elections and marginalisation,” Mr Odinga told the group. RELATIONSHIP Mr Odinga urged Kenyans to separate the Building Bridges Initiative from the 2022 succession politics and political ambitions of individuals, saying they should focus on ensuring past problems do not go beyond the current administration. He appealed to youth groups across the country to shun violence and confrontation and instead use the platform created by the ‘handshake’ to put their issues on the table once the collection of views begins. Mr Odinga and Mr Njenga have had a close relationship that started in the run-up to the 2007 General Election. Before the polls, Mr Njenga declared his support for Mr Odinga in the race for the top job. VISITATION The polls ended in violence, leading to a case against Mr Kenyatta at the International Criminal Court in the Hague, the Netherlands. When Mr Njenga was jailed at the Kamiti Maximum Prison, Mr Odinga was among the leaders who visited him. Mr Odinga gifted him with two books, The 48 Laws of Power by Robert Greene and The Art of War by Sun Tzu. In 2014, Mr Odinga was also among the few people that visited Mr Njenga at his home, just a few metres from the Opposition leader’s Karen home, after he survived a gun attack in a highway ambush that left his lover and four others dead.   The MPs have accused ODM of curtailing the political freedom of leaders from the Coast region.