Wangari Gachahi, 32, worked in the banking industry for three years after college. “I gave my best to the bank but I always felt I needed to express myself differently. I’m a creative and deep down I wanted to express my creativity though creating lasting memories for people through life’s events,” says Wangari. “I enjoyed working in the bank but my heart was in events, and my husband, who has been a great support system, and I, jointly decided to embark on this entrepreneurial journey. After the birth of my firstborn child, I resigned from my banking job to take care of my daughter. My hours in the bank were not very flexible so I took the time out during my maternity leave to look at things critically." “Resigning gave me sufficient time to research, build networks and finally start Malaika Events. Leaving employment was a win-win because I was also with my kids fulltime and at the same time I got time to conceive and grow my business. The experience I acquired at the bank as a customer service officer has also come in quite handy, especially with dealing with my clients who are key to the success of any business." “I started off by organising small parties for my friends and family who were very instrumental in giving me feedback and helping Malaika grow." “The beauty of following my dreams was that it also gave me time to take care of the kids, which was our number one priority. I was excited at starting a business that I was passionate about. The feeling of accomplishment after an event keeps me inspired, especially seeing the delight in my clients faces,” says Wangari. “Delivering a personal experience is also very important to me,” she adds. HAPPY CLIENTS Wangari enjoys herself when she is creating bespoke events. Recently, she organised a ruracio (traditional wedding) in Maua, Meru, 700 kilometres from Nairobi. “I must admit it was a sight to behold and was the talk of town for days,” she says with contentment. “Nothing beats the feeling of a satisfied client. And it only gets better when people start seeking you out because of a job you did,” confesses Wangari. Wangari is versatile and goes beyond wedding events to personal celebrations, which was a strategy to make her stand out from the crowd. “We can also do graduation parties, Oriental themed bridal showers and even blue-themed Boss Baby birthdays!” she says. Her biggest marketing avenue has been word of mouth. “Clients market for us as they refer us to their friends and acquaintances,” says Wangari. Social media has also played a role. “A large bulk of marketing is also through our social media platforms, It is amazing how many people approach us through these platforms,” shares Wangari. Just like any other business, it hasn’t been all rosy for Wangari and her team. “We face unique challenges, including high capital costs and cash flow constraints. This is mitigated by having a good supplier list and relationships that help manage hiring costs and contracts,” she says. “Resourcing is also a big challenge; getting the right skills to match the quality of work required.” “I thank God I has the courage to take that bold step and I would encourage anyone out there who is not sure to just take the first step and face the future; it can be very rewarding. God has also been very faithful throughout this journey,” says Wangari, who says that she prays a lot. Wangari’s winning strategies: Passion to create: Dare to dream, then watch it come to life. The client is the blueprint of the concept: Creating concepts that are client-centred is key. Exposure: I keep myself abreast with trends and all matters innovation. It’s important to have an innovative and digital marketing platform to be able to stay ahead of the competition. Eyes of a lynx: Ensures I notice every minor detail. Big passionate heart and the gift of the gab: To satisfactorily keep the clients happy and to negotiate, inform, communicate trends and network well.   She creates authentic unique wear for children.