Former ladies amateur champion Naomi Wafula on Wednesday moved to the top of the Nyali Bowl leaderboard in the on-going Ladies Coast Open at the par 71 Nyali Golf Club course Mombasa. The event, which is marking its 70th anniversary this year, has attracted a field of 105 ladies. Wafula, who is making a comeback in the ladies golf scene after a year-long absence, recovered from two double bogeys at the back nine’s par four, 12th and 13th to finish the first round on two over par 73 and a shot better than Arusha Gymkhana Club’s Madina Iddy. Earlier on, the handicap three Wafula picked up four birdies on the, first, third, sixth and eighth, with only one bogey at the second hole for three under par 33. However at the back nine, she picked up the two doubles and dropped one more shot at the 16th for five over par 40. On the other hand, Madina, also playing handicap three, dropped two shots at the front nine’s third and seventh, but picked two birdies both on the short holes at the back nine where she also picked up a seven at the par five-11th and dropped one shot at the 14th for three over par 74. Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club’s Vicky Elias was next on six over par 77 with defending champion Angel Eaton - also from Tanzania’s Dar Es Salaam Gymkhana Club - firing 78 in the opening round of the event. Also on 78 was Hawa Wanyeche from Dar es Salaam Gymkhana, who dropped a number of shots in the opening round. Loise Akinyi of Golf Park and Vet Lab’s Agnes Nyakio were on 79 each. The afternoon’s second round was ongoing at the time of writing. The open, which started with the Leisure Lodge Beach Open on Monday, moved to Nyali on Tuesday where the ladies played their foursomes won by the pair of Hawa Wanyeche and Vicky Elias on 38 points. They won by two points from Alice Mwangi and Veronica Kona on 36 after a countback with Joyce Kamau and Christine Ockotch, Maureen Wroe and Hildah Mugure and the pair of Rachael Ndei and Agnes Nyakio. The ladies move to Vipingo Ridge on Thursday for the third leg before winding up the week at Mombasa golf Club on Friday and Saturday where at stake will be the Mombasa Cup.  