The Ministry of Petroleum and Mining is looking for a consultant to map out the location of more than 2,500 fuel retail stations and storage facilities to check on their compliance with the law. According to the expression of interest the ministry shared, the six-month exercise will see Kenya design a platform where information on existing fuel stations can be publicly displayed and data on those facilities stored and managed by the State. This will be implemented through the World Bank’s International Development Assistance funding under Kenya Petroleum Technical Assistance Project. The geographical information system (GIS) platform will be compatible with smartphones offering multiple users key information such as the location of a petrol station and if it has any history of offences in fuel quality or transit product diversion. “The objective of the consultancy is to develop a GIS-based map and to perform regulatory safety and operational compliance assessment of petroleum storage facilities and retail stations in Kenya,” said the ministry. The GIS map will also display information on stations’ status of approval and safety standards, making it easier for agencies such as Energy Regulatory Commission and National Environment Management Authority to rein in stations that are operating illegally. READ: High kerosene prices fail to stop fuel adulteration Some of the basic requirements of a petrol station are having a canopy over the pumps, a tank farm and an interceptor area. In addition, the platform will be used to establish the market concentration of oil marketers and help monitor competition in the sector as well as cut response time for emergencies. “The GIS map will also be used as a quick locator tool by emergency services during a response to accidents in petroleum retail stations,” says the ministry. The consultant is also expected to check if the stations meet the Kenya Bureau of Standards’ Petroleum facilities (Retail and Consumer outlets) specifications of 2014.  