There are two ways of finding out what is trending in the fashion world, at least on the Kenyan scene. One can attend a fashion show or make their way to the stadium when there is a rugby match. From being a sports event, held mostly on Ngong Road in Nairobi, rugby has grown into one of the most colourful social events in diverse counties, from Nakuru to Machakos. Well, everything about the Masaku Sevens did not go as planned four years ago. Parents were disgusted, fans were appalled, organisers were bitter and the county government was left with egg on its face. What had been billed as a grand rugby tournament ended up with the tag of Sodom and Gomorrah. 180 DEGREES Those who drove to Machakos spent hours in a gridlock on Mombasa Road. As for the pictures and videos that came from the event, the less said the better. Fast forward to 2018 and the Kabeberi Sevens, which started in Machakos on Saturday, has done a 180-degree turn. The Reverend Richard Karanja of Christ is the Answer Ministries (Citam) aptly captured the moment when he said: “We want to redo the story that happened here a while back by introducing Jesus to the fans.” CHRISTIANS For the first time in Kenya’s rugby history, the church has partnered with a club to spread the word in a tournament that has in the past been associated with free living. And this weekend, lovers of the game and those who appreciate the lifestyle associated with the contact sport will interact with 200 young Christians who are in Machakos solely to spread the word, counsel, lend a shoulder and, of course, enjoy the game. Rev Karanja, speaking when Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua hosted Mwamba RFC officials, said a number of churches will be attending the tournament because they are keen on “influencing culture through sports”. Citam and Mavuno Church will spearhead the initiative. CORE VALUES Mwamba RFC President Alvas Onguru welcomed the pastors, saying Citam, which offers chaplaincy services to Mwamba RFC, will go a long way in supplementing Mwamba’s core values which is “to let young people enjoy the sport, grow and build character”. The George Mwangi Kabeberi Memorial Sevens, popularly known as the Kabeberi Sevens, was first played in 1986 to commemorate the passing away of the charismatic Kabeberi, one of the founding members of the Mwamba club. Over the years, the significance of the tournament has been expanded to honour departed club members, including Leeroy Okara, Absalom ‘Bimbo’ Mutere, Abedeen Shikoyi, Jimmy Owino and lately Victor Wayodi. PRAY FOR SIMBAS So as the fans troop to the Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos County on Saturday, there will be much more to look forward to besides the girls in short skirts and thigh-high boots and hot pants. With them will be an army of more than 200 young Christian soldiers who will be seeking to “introduce Jesus" to the fans. Maybe they will take a moment to pray for the Kenya rugby team, Simbas, which is in Namibia, seeking a place in the World Cup.   Governor Evans Kidero on Thursday beat a hasty retreat from an earlier ban he had slapped on the sale and consumption of alcoholic drinks during the Kabeberi Sevens rugby event.