The Kenya School of Government (KSG) is set to build four additional campuses to increase the institution’s presence in the country. The new campuses, which will be built in Kisumu, Vihiga, Isiolo and Turkana counties, will add to the five that already currently exist in the country. “We have already acquired land and the titles for the new upcoming campuses, and all preparations are already in place. We intend to embark on the building; starting with Kisumu and Vihiga, in the next hundred days,” said the institution’s Kabete Campus Director General, Dr Ludeki Chweya. Dr Chweya, spoke during the launch of the Rapid Results Initiatives (RRI), a 100-day programme run by KSG and intended to expedite the implementation of good governance practices in governmental departments and institutions in the country. Being a trainer of public servants, the institution will use the RRI to demonstrate a model government service, whereby the trainers will have a place to refer to when explaining how government services should be improved, according to the director general. “Key among the targets set by the school is to ensure there is a same day or 24-hour response to all inquiries. In that regard, for instance, KSG requires all directors and section heads, in their response letters, to include a template, which can be replicated in all government departments and institutions,” said Prof Francis Kibera, the Chairman of Council, Kenya School of Government, in his keynote address. Prof Kibera further urged both national and county governments to hasten administrative processes. “Let me assure all, that we are keen on this 100-day RRI, as we believe it constitutes a major contribution to the realisation of the Big 4 Agenda. My expectations of this RRI are very high. This may be the time for us to reflect and take stock of the enormous responsibilities before us that will help us realise what we seek to achieve by the end of the 100 days,” said Prof Kibera. The initiative, which emphasises on varied thematic areas, aims at demonstrating the school’s efforts in realising a transformed organisation for a model public service. It will be run in the five KSG campuses in the country in Embu, Matuga, Baringo, Mombasa and Lower Kabete.  