A seven-step run-up, and a right leg side-foot bang through the middle for a goal from the penalty spot on Sunday saw President Uhuru Kenyatta beat Kisii Governor James Ongwae between the posts in an iconic  strike that fittingly unveiled the refurbished Gusii Stadium. That goal — which also launched this year’s inter county games — would have made Alvaro Moratta green with envy. What Chelsea’s Sh11.5 billion Spanish striker was unable to do for 1,170 minutes, or 19.5 hours last season, President Kenyatta managed in just a few seconds, and after seven gingerly steps. But despite conceding that "presidential penalty", Governor Ongwae has scored a huge goal in preparing the Gusii Stadium in time for the inter county games organised under the umbrella of the Kenya Inter County Sports and Cultural Association (Kicosca). PRESIDENTIAL PENALTY Who would dare block a "presidential penalty", anyway? The inter county action has attracted most of the counties, with, sadly, neighbouring Kisumu among those unable to field a team for what Governor Peter Anyang’ Nyong’o mitigated as "lack of funds." The resurgence of Gusii Stadium will impact positively on the development of sport in a county that has celebrated many  global sporting stars since the pre-independence days when Nyantika Maiyoro was among the first Kenyan athletes to compete abroad. In his retirement years, Maiyoro also served as Gusii Stadium manager. Those who turned up for local club Shabana FC’s national league matches in the 1980s will recall the old man running around the stadium’s perimeter fence, whipping anyone who attempted to sneak in through the then porous iron sheet fence to catch a glimpse of Henry Motego, Salim Mabruk, Mike Okoth, Henry Nyandoro, Sylvester Mageni, Alfred Oloo "Fwaya" and others on the mighty Shabana roster in action. INCENTIVE It’s reassuring that Governor Ongwae has now offered Shabana a year’s free access to the new stadium for their third-tier league matches, hoping the incentive will catapult coach Andrew Kanuli’s side onto the second tier league and, eventually, back to the Premier League where they belong. Governor Ongwae, his deputy Joash Maangi and youthful sports executive Duke Mainga have done a commendable job in fighting to beat deadlines for this week’s games. Kisii’s hosting of the Kicosca action should also serve as a huge lesson to neighbouring Nyamira County where the development of sports remains stunted despite the county having produced multiple national secondary schools football champions, Gekomoni Secondary School, Atlanta Olympics 800 metres bronze medallist Fred Onyancha and sevens rugby ace Dennis Ombachi, inter alia. GRAZING FIELD The proposed Nyamira County Stadium at Manga remains a grazing field for cattle as contracts serially awarded for its development don’t seem to have taken off the ground, with the county’s youths now looking up to neighbouring Kisii for motivation. Indeed, devolution has been good for sports with counties such as Meru, Mombasa, Uasin Gishu, Narok, Nandi, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Mombasa and now Kisii having upgraded their principal stadiums to reputable standards, examples other counties must emulate. Makori is the Editor - Sports at Nation Media Group: emakori@ke.nationmedia.com  