You start your business. You are excited. You have discovered your passion. Energy is flowing. Fast forward to a few years later: You don’t want to get out bed. You are avoiding phone calls. Everybody is irritating you. You wonder if you made a mistake. Most of all, you wonder if there is something wrong with you. The thing is nobody told you is that there would be days that you would not want to get out of bed. That the thought of facing the world would be too overwhelming. So many of us go through this agony quietly. We think the way to get through it is to just move on and will ourselves into action. And we do. But the slump will hit again and again. When this feeling is happening often enough, it’s a sign to hit the stop button and reflect. Maybe there is something to it. No, there is nothing wrong with you. You are a normal entrepreneur. It’s just that not many people talk about this aspect of the journey. A good starting point is to get yourself into circles of people who can relate. I have been talking about this syndrome for months with some of my entrepreneur buddies and these are a few of the reasons we have uncovered. You are burnt out. You have been going on and on without a break. You may think this doesn’t apply to you because you went on holiday last month, but did you actually get a break? This means getting your mind off work. Stop the phone calls, emails and try not to think about work. Your mind has been on overtime and problem solving mode for years and you need a real break. This leads to the next point. Maybe you take on too much. You are the be-all and end-all of your business. Many entrepreneurs find that they have become their employees’ ‘employee’. You pay people to do a job. Instead they load problems on you. You rise to the occasion and fix it for them. You get the ego trip and they get off easy. It becomes the expectation. This business is not giving you the freedom you had imagined. GET HELP Get help and when you do, make deliverables clear and let people know that you expect them to also handle problems. Try to understand the season your business is in and your role. You cannot be doing the same role or tasks you were doing five years ago and expect to feel excited about the business. There was probably a season where you did it all because you needed to learn the ropes. Maybe now you need to focus most of your time on just particular areas. As your business has evolved, you have also understood who you are, what you are good at and what you are not. There is nobody who thrives on going to work on their weaknesses day in day out. Last but not least, many of us keep feeling like failures because we believe that what success looks like and our circumstances don’t quite match up. Success is always round the corner, just not the corner you are on. Bigger revenues do not necessarily mean success. More money did come with more risks and more obligations. You may want that or you actually get there and find you are more miserable then ever and spend more days in bed. I’ll end with this observation: A lot of the internal struggle comes from trying to fit into what we think a business should be. Remember you are different and your business is too. Take time to reflect and discover what works and is sustainable for you. It is also just OK to just take the time – a day or so – to feel bad.  Waceke runs programmes on personal finance, retirement & entrepreneurship. Get in touch with her on waceken@centonomy.com|Facebook/WacekeNduati| Twitter@cekenduati   There are many ways to tell if the energy you are manifesting is slowing you down.