Kenya's Chief Kadhi Ahmed Muhdhar has led Muslims in marking Idd-ul-Adha prayers in Mombasa. It was the second day of prayers conducted to mark the celebrations after a section of the faithful held their prayers on Tuesday. The Wednesday prayers at Ronald Ngala Grounds in Mombasa were led by former Chief Kadhi Hamad Kassim. In his sermon after the prayers, Sheikh Kassim slammed those who attacked Sheikh Muhdhar over differences in marking the celebrations. But the two Muslim leaders called for coexistence and tolerance among the faithful. CALL FOR TOLERANCE "If you think you are on the right direction there is no need of attacking others and throw tantrums at them. We have to respect our fellow Muslims," said Sheikh Kassim. Chief Kadhi Muhdhar said Muslim faithful should use the celebrations to relate with each other in harmony. On Tuesday, some Muslims in parts of the country defied Sheikh Muhdhar’s advice to mark the Idd-ul-Adha on Wednesday. The faithful flocked various mosques and open grounds for prayers, marking their Idd celebrations. MALINDI In Malindi, Muslim faithful on Wednesday thronged mosques for the celebrations. They faulted the National Assembly Majority Leader Adan Duale for criticising the Chief Kadhi. The faithful, led by their imams and preachers told Mr Duale to decist from politicising Islamic matters and also stop speaking on Islamic matters on behalf of Muslims. They spoke to journalists outside Jamia Mosque in Malindi after attending morning prayers to mark the holiday. Sheikh Faisal Mohammed, who led the celebrations, called upon Mr Duale to respect religious leaders who have been mandated to perform their duty as per the Islamic teachings.   MOON SIGHTING “According to Islamic teachings, Idd-ul-Adha is observed upon [sighting] the moon and not issues to do with Saudi Arabia as proposed earlier. We will defend our Kadhi on all matters,” he said. He further said Muslims coming out to observe the day as per the chief Kadhi’s decision is an indication that they respect him as their leader. Sheik Shariff Swaleh called on Muslims to desist from issues that will bring hate and divide them. “Let the Chief Kadhi perform his duty as mandated,” he said “The decision to observe the day on Wednesday was according to Islamic teachings.” The announcement by Sheikh Muhdhar elicited a bitter exchange among the Muslim faithful. A debate ensued last week on whether the celebrations should be marked on Tuesday or Wednesday. This is after Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i declared Tuesday as a holiday. However, Sheikh Muhdhar faulted the move, saying he had written to the CS in advance to inform him that Kenyan Muslims would observe the holiday on Wednesday, August 22.   The Garissa Town MP says declaring public holidays is not within Chief Kadhi's jurisdiction.