Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has said the ongoing demolitions of buildings erected on waterways, road reserves and riparian land will be carried out fairly but firmly. Governor Sonko said Saturday a conducive economic environment will be fostered by the knowledge that the rule of law applies equally to all and there is no room for impunity “We are aware that some of the affected buildings were commercial centres providing employment to hundreds of Kenyans. “However, the demolitions must be carried out without favour or prejudice. We encourage those who were conducting business in these locations to re-establish their businesses elsewhere. Here is the full statement released by the governor: "Nairobi City County Government is part of the Nairobi Regeneration Project that has brought together various government bodies to form a multi-agency team. One of the mandates has been to clean up Nairobi River, prevent discharge of raw sewerage and industrial waste as well as remove structures on riparian land. This undertaking has been, and continues to be carried out in a fair but firm manner, only affecting buildings that have contravened set laws and regulations. The buildings will be demolished only to the extent of their encroachment to the river ecosystem. Others affected are buildings on public access roads and grabbed public utilities. We are aware that some of these buildings were constructed with permits from the various regulatory agencies, and our position is as was stated by H.E. President Uhuru Kenyatta that those responsible for issuing these permissions will be investigated and prosecuted if found culpable. We are aware that some of the affected buildings were commercial centres, providing employment to hundreds of Kenyans. However, the demolitions must be carried out without favour or prejudice. We encourage those who were conducting business in these locations to re-establish their businesses elsewhere. A conducive economic environment will be fostered by the knowledge that the rule of law applies equally to all, and there is no room for impunity. Regarding the Oshwal Centre and Temple, we are ready to preserve the temple, monuments and cultural centre because they are far from the river, but the rest of the structures, like the hall, that are within the stipulated riparian distance, must be removed. We urge leaders not to use the demolitions to advance political interests. The President and I are interested in leaving a legacy by righting the wrongs that were committed in the past. We owe it to future generations".   The building stands atop Mutuini-Ngong River.