The ghosts of being fired as the commander of the United Nations Mission in South Sudan and the illegal multibillion shilling charcoal trade in Somalia came back to haunt Lt Gen Johnson Ondieki on Friday during his vetting as Kenya’s ambassador to Turkey. Mr Ondieki, facing the National Assembly Defence and Foreign Relations Committee, said that, to date, he has never been told what led to his sacking. His met his waterloo in the killing of hundreds of Southern Sudanese nationals by rival factions of Sudan Peace Liberation Movement (SPLM), forcing then United Secretary General Ban Ki Moon to send a team of investigators to the world’s youngest nation “to save face”. “After four months into the job, I got a letter inviting me to New York (US) for the induction course. When I went there, I was informed that the report had come out and I was being blamed for not protecting the civilians,” General Ondieki told the committee chaired by Kajiado South MP Katoo Ole Metito. TROOPS WITHDRAWN Other Kenya High Commission nominees - Mr Peter Ogego (Saudi Arabia), Chris Mburu (South Sudan) and former Ainamoi MP Benjamin Langat (Namibia), were also vetted. General Ondieki’s exit would see Kenya withdraw her troops from the civil war-ridden country in a huff under orders of President Uhuru Kenyatta. “I asked what the problem was but they could not tell me. But I thank God that I did the best I could do to save the citizens of South Sudan and the members of the UN who were there,” he said. The General defended his credentials despite confessing to the vetting panel that he took over the leadership of the force before being inducted in New York (US) as is customary. He said that he had been in South Sudan before he took over the responsibility but there was nobody to guide him, forcing him to start from scratch. DECISION-MAKING By the third week of his assignment, the crisis in Juba broke out when he had just returned to the camp. The crisis soon spread to other areas of the country. His mission was to restore order in Juba. Still, he managed to ensure the safety of 46,000 vulnerable individuals. Mr Ondieki admitted that the matter was complicated further by the system he found in place, which meant that decisions were not made individually, unlike during the Linda Nchi mission in Somalia where he would take full responsibility as the commander of KDF. He added that the complication in UNMISS is manifested by the fact that it has more than 26 countries with vested interests including Kenya and Uganda where decisions follow a bureaucratic channel through crisis management teams. EMIGRATION He said that the illegal charcoal trade in Somalia was on before the entry of Kenya but noted that the Kenya Defence Forces was roped in to malign the country’s image. Mr Ogego challenged the government to develop a sophisticated policy regime to promote and regulate labour emigration. "I think Kenya has come of age; we have educated Kenyans. We need a clear framework of exporting our labour, he said. Mr Mburu, who served as National Intelligence Service (NIS) director in charge of external intelligence, said he would push for Kenya’s interests in South Sudan, with Mr Langat saying that he would ensure Namibia becomes a key market for Kenya’s products.   At least 36 civilians have been killed and 31 others injured in a rebel assault on Duk County in South Sudan’s vast and restive Jonglei State, officials said on Monday.