There’s nothing a woman can do to drive a man to get excited by little children. Last week, Makueni County MP Rose Museo urged women to go to bed without their underwear more often as a countermeasure against the rising cases of defilement in the area. She thinks that men violating little girls is a direct result of their wives denying them conjugal rights. There are many things I find wrong with this scenario. First of all, we all know that rape has little to do with sexual pleasure and everything to do with power. We know that paedophilia is a result of psychopathy, sadism and being sick in the head. These crimes have nothing to do with the things that a woman does or doesn’t do for her husband. That assumption that a straying husband is this way because there was something his wife didn’t do back at home is faulty. Very faulty. Second, wouldn’t a solution be easier to come by if men, not just women, were involved in discussions about rape and defilement? What if they were, you know, taught how not to rape or defile? Why are we so quick to blame the woman anyway? Why does a wife have to answer for the willful bad behaviour of a grown man? Why is it my fault if my husband isn’t an upright citizen, or he doesn’t think much of monogamy, or he wears torn socks to work? Interestingly, women will do the blaming themselves. The self-esteem of the average Kenyan woman is already fragile as it is. How about, when it comes to rape and defilement, we apportion blame to the right quarters? Let’s stop deflecting the attention from where it should be. ‘How could she not know?’ people will ask when a woman finds out that the man she wed is a tyrant. ‘Of course she knew. What woman doesn’t know her husband? She must have been in cahoots with him,’ others will say. I know that even given a lifetime, you can’t entirely know another person. It is possible to be happily married and committed to a man and have no idea that he is a criminal. Let’s not be so quick to judge. The next time you catch a man misbehaving, resist the urge to conclude that the women in his life are somehow to blame for it.   It’s not a bad thing to reach for the stars – in fact, it is the route to personal fulfilment.