The last three years we have been engaging and encouraging young people to take up leadership positions. One of their greatest fears is the rate at which seemingly bright, talented, well-educated young leaders fail so spectacularly and often so abruptly. What every young person should know is that succeeding and being a great leader is to not have too many flaws but to rise above those flaws. There are a few nuggets that can help them prepare for leadership positions. Having purpose and passion: When purpose and passion meet there is nothing young people cannot accomplish as individuals, teams or even organisations. TENACITY A purpose driven life makes leadership struggles they face become inconsequential. Lack of purpose make people not utilise their full potential leading to frustrations because deep inside is the conviction that they can achieve more but they are stuck. Tenacity in pursuit of leadership: No matter how tough the journey becomes, you should not give up. Everyday challenges youth encounter should give them an opportunity to question who they are. The stories of struggle, diligence and perseverance should get them through. MORALITY Moral development: Moral deficiencies lead to primitive development, rationalisation and blame game. All young people should take stock of their moral behaviour, respect for social order, universal ethical principles and guided conscience. For any leader to influence followers they must have character infused with the highest level of moral development and admirable personality traits. Ability to withstand pressure: The ability to handle high-pressure and challenging tasks can be addictive. For some young leaders, that level of pressure, in combination with opportunities to behave unethically, has led to their failure. Those defining moments of truth say a lot about leadership. LISTEN The choices made in critical moments of hardship tell a lot about true nature and character of leaders. This should be a lesson for all young people before ascending to the position of leadership. Being a good listener: The best leaders are good listeners. Leaders dignify their followers by paying attention to their input and concerns. Young people should train to listen to others especially those that give them good counsel. Effective time management: Young leaders should continuously discover what they do with their time. DIVERSITY It is amazing what they can discover when they truly measure and track activities using an activity log to see what they really spend time on and if those activities are adding value or destroying value. Checking on the day to day activities helps youthful leaders to see whether their activities match up with their goals, desires, core values, and responsibilities. In case of a mismatch, corrective action should be taken. Embracing diversity: Young leaders should be prepared to strategically blend new ways of thinking with the current ways. They should note that being a leader is not an entitlement. It follows that they should have respect and creativity in helping the older generations understand why their new ways of thinking make sense and learn how to earn buy-in. Paying attention to historical dynamics that exist even as they introduce new ideas is extremely important and can help minimise failures in leadership. Dr Kiambati is a management consultant and a senior lecturer at Karatina University. kellen- kiambati@ gmail.com. Dr Kariuki is a social scientist, management consultant and a lecturer at Karatina University. annkariuki02@yahoo.com  