Deputy President William Ruto on Saturday urged opposition leaders to back his 2022 presidential bid. Mr Ruto on Saturday said ODM party leader Raila Odinga and his Amani National Congress counterpart Musalia Mudavadi ought to return the favour after he rallied behind them in Mr Odinga's 2007 quest. Mr Ruto, Mr Odinga, Mr Mudavadi, Tourism Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala and former minister Joseph Nyagah were members of the ODM (Orange Democratic Movement) Pentagon. The Deputy President said he supported Mr Odinga in 2007, after which he was indicted at the International Criminal Court for crimes against humanity following the 2007/2008 post-election violence. "But our victory was stolen and the country broke lose. We fought hard as ODM to reclaim the lost victory until a negotiated deal was reached through a peace accord spearheaded by the late Kofi Annan," Mr Ruto said during Lurambi MP Titus Khamala's homecoming party in Kakamega. NO DEBT He lamented that Mr Odinga and Mr Mudavadi did not visit him at The Hague. "..but God saw me through and I was exonerated, and today l am above the two. The two therefore owe me." In his defence, he said he is closer to the presidency by virtue of being Mr Uhuru Kenyatta's deputy. But Mr Mudavadi denied owing the Deputy President a political debt. He said there was no power sharing agreement in ODM in 2007. "Besides, President Kenyatta and Mr Ruto short-changed me in 2013 when they lied to me in my house that they would back my candidature," he said. He challenged Mr Ruto to prepare for a bruising battle in the 2022 elections. BRIBES Concerning the report on the safety of imported sugar, Mr Ruto slammed members of Parliament accused of accepting bribes to throw out the report. He said the joint committee on Trade and Agriculture, which compiled the report, should have done a better job. "Instead of using millions of shillings from the public coffers diligently, the MPs went for selfies with those they were supposed to interrogate and brought back a flimsy report before ending up in toilets to receive bribes," he said. SUPPORT BASEMr Ruto said the report presented before the House lacked information on who imported the sugar and whether the sugar is safe. Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa asked Mr Mudavadi and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula to foster unity of the Luhya community. He said Mr Ruto has an edge because "he has organised himself". "He has a big following and is seeking support to supplement his following," Mr Wamalwa said.   Mr Ruto told Mr Odinga to accept defeat and restated that Jubilee won the August 8 polls.