Male revellers have raised concerns over increasing predatory drugging and drink-spiking cases by a group of women who frequent popular bars in Murang’a town. The Nation has established that at least 10 men have fallen victims in the last one month only. The women reportedly have an eye for national government employees, senior policemen and bankers, and most of the time target men who have cars. At first the women pretend to be new in town only to seduce and drug their victims, before robbing them in nearby lodgings or in the men’s cars. Single men who take the women home wake up to find their electronics and other valuables gone. The victims who spoke to Nation on condition of anonymity because they are married said they do not know the drugs the women use to spike their drinks. “I was in my third beer when a lady asked whether she could join me. I bought her two beers. She said she was in town to visit a friend who had not shown up but decided to wait in the club since she was new in the area,” said a drink-spiking victim. The victim said he took the woman home where she cooked a meal that on eating made him dizzy only to regain consciousness hours later. A married man who talked to Nation said a woman he met in one of the bars asked for a ride home, only to persuade him to take an energy drink that she claimed would lower the level of alcohol in his body. “I woke up the following day without a coin, a mobile phone and my personal identification documents, I almost lost my job as I could not manage to get to work,” he said. He said the woman left him with a huge debt after asking friends to loan him money through his phone. A Murang’a-based doctor Humphrey Gikonyo said he has treated several drugging victims. “The drugs are very dangerous especially when mixed with alcohol since when combined they have a powerful anaesthetic effect,” he told the Nation. Murang’a Bar Owners’ Association chairman Paul Waweru said the drink-spiking suspects are non-locals and urged proprietors to be vigilant. “We are aware of these cases and I have instructed bar owners mount CCTV cameras to monitor women with suspicious character,” he said. Murang’a County Commander Mohamed Farah said they are investigating the incidents but urged the victims to record statements at the police station. “The problem with the victims is that they are not recording statements with us so that we can act,” he said.   Suspects are accused of robbing and drugging clubbers in Nyeri.