Kwale bowed out of men’s football after posting mixed results on the penultimate day of the County Assembly Sports Association (CASA) games festival at Kasarani Stadium in Nairobi on Thursday. Kwale started the day brightly by defeating Busia 2-0 in an entertaining Pool ‘C’ duel at Kasarani Stadium, before suffering the same fate in the hands of Nyamira to exit the week-long event at group stage. Against Busia, Kwale could have scored more goals, but still won comfortably through Salim Mwalese and Juma Zani who found the back of the net in the seventh and 22nd minutes, respectively. Zani also squandered a penalty. He missed a one-on-one chance with goalkeeper in the second match against Nyamira, who triumphed 2-0 courtesy of Edward Nyakundi and Eric Nyambati goals. “There are no easy teams in this competition. It was a difficult game, but we are happy to take the three points,” said Nyakundi in a post-match interview. The first match of the day between Nairobi and Migori saw the hosts carry the day 3-2 through a Stephen Mwangi hat-trick. Peter Nyatol and Rayler Maeri netted the two goals for Migori in the Pool ‘A’ tie. In women’s volleyball, Trans Nzoia, Uasin Gishu and Nyamira stormed into the semifinals after flooring Elgeyo-Marakwet, Kisumu and West Pokot by 2-0 sets each, respectively, with Nairobi hitting Kericho 2-1. Uasin Gishu, Siaya and Migori reached thye semi-finals in men’s volleyball after seeing off Bungoma, Nakuru and Migori 2-0, respectively. Guests Senate were expected to fill the last semi-final slot after Kericho protested that Trans Nzoia booked their ticket to quarterfinals unfairly. In netball, Nairobi were paired with Busia, while Bungoma were up against Homa Bay and Uasin Gishu battled it out against Kwale in the last eight. Trans Nzoia outwitted Narok by 16-13 goals. In athletics competitions which kicked off Thursday, Jacob Lerosion of Samburu won men’s 1,500 metres after timing 4 minutes, 43.6 seconds. Second and third places went to Isaiah Museyieki (Kajiado) and Michael Kilonzo (Embu) who finished with 4:46.3 and 4:46.5, respectively. Gladys Chebet of Uasin Gishu won the three-lap race in the women’s category with a time of 6 minutes, 18.6 seconds. She was followed closely by Beth Njoka (Embu, 6:33.1) and Beatrice Kipruto (Trans Nzoia, 6:35.3). Women’s 5,000 metres race attracted 14 runners, but only the duo of Divinah Chelangat and Cynthia Muge from Nandi County finished the race. Chelangat won the 12 and a half laps in 27 minutes, 11.05 seconds, while Muge clocked 31:20.39. All finals will take place Friday.  