A Kenyan motor dealer company has launched a digital platform to ease importation of vehicles into the country. Cheki Kenya is taking advantage of the wide spread internet connectivity to reach car buyers, the company’s chief executive officer Michael Mureithi said. “We have introduced a new product dubbed ChekiPort which will now be able to import vehicles on behalf of buyers, who seek assurance and peace of mind during the importation pro-cess,” said Mr Mureithi. He noted that for a long time local vehicle importers have taken advantage of clients seeking to import cars by charging them exorbitant fees. “Those who attempted to purchase online in the early days were sometimes swindled by fraudsters who set up fictitious car auction sites,” Mr Mureithi explained while highlighting benefits of the online portal. ChekiPort, he said, guarantees quality service, transparency and will ensure customers save up to 10 per cent of their money. CUSTOMER NEEDS The buyer will also get access to high quality cars from the company, which has been in the car business for several years now. “Cheki knows and understands cars and most of all, customers’ needs. That is why we are in partnership with a major, trusted Japanese company,” he said. IDENTIFY VEHICLE While engaging ChekiPort, a customer is required to click on the ChekiPort Imports banner and identify a vehicle of his choice from the vast variety available. Those torn between particular cars can seek assistance from the company’s representatives, who offer help about the pros and cons of the vehicles. “After a customer does market research, he identifies the mode of financing he would want to use to purchase the vehicle. If he wishes to finance the car over a certain period of time, he has the option of getting a car loan through Cheki. Cash buyers will, however, need to make the full payment,” Mr Mureithi explained. ChekiPort then proceeds to purchase the desired car for the customer and later undergoes the mandatory quality inspection as required by Kenya Bureau of Standards. It will take an average of six to eight weeks to arrive in Mombasa through shipping. The company clears and registers the vehicle on behalf of the customer by paying the Kenya Revenue Authority the mandatory fees.  