Just like Mathare United in 1998, Kakamega-based amateur side Riverplate are dreaming of winning the FKF SportPesa Shield as a non-Premier League side following the quarter-final pairing of the annual knock-out competition. "We have already hit our target this season by making it to the quarters of the competition. Now we want to go all the way. We know this tournament is almost the preserve of Premier League sides but we want to break that strangle hold and got our glory as a small team," said Riverplate president James Andati. Riverplate, formed two years ago, have been drawn against Ulinzi Stars in Bukhungu Stadium on September 1. The Kakamega side and Kenya Police are the only teams outside the KPL that have made it to the last eight. "We are excited because our quarter-final match will be held at the Bukhungu stadium. The home ground advantage is crucial. This is the first time we will be playing a Kenyan Premier League team, expect fireworks," added Andati. Mathare remain the only football club to have won the domestic cup while not featuring in the top-flight league in 1998, before they earned promotion to the Kenyan Premier League. In other quarter-finals pairings, Police will face defending champions AFC Leopards, Tusker will host Sofapaka whilst Kariobangi Sharks square it out against Gor Mahia. The tournament's winner will win Sh2 million and a glittering trophy, plus earn the right to represent the country in the Caf Confederation Cup next year. Named after 36-time Argentine champions, Riverplate boasts of a relatively young squad with an average age of 22 years, consisting of college students and casual labourers. Team captain Collins Mwanzi, 30, is the oldest player. Coached by former Kakamega Homeboyz assistant coach Peter Okidi, outfit is currently ranked second in the fourth tier Western Branch League behind Kabras United, and has so far defeated National Super League sides Nakuru All Stars, Kisumu All Stars and Transcom to make it to the last eight. SportPesa Shield quarter-final fixtures: September 1 - Riverplate v Ulinzi Stars (Bukhungu Stadium, 1pm), Kenya Police v AFC Leopards (Bukhungu Stadium, 3:15pm), Tusker v Sofapaka (Machackos Stadium, 2pm), Gor Mahia v Kariobangi Sharks (Machakos Stadium, 4:15pm)  