More than 3,780 tutors in technical and vocational education and training (TVET) institutions will this month be paid by the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) as their transfer to the Public Service Commission is finalised. “To ensure a smooth transition and an efficient management of the payroll, and in view of the existing collective bargaining agreement with the teachers union, the commission will retain the affected lecturers on its payroll to August 31, 2018,” TSC CEO Nancy Macharia said. But in a circular to principals of colleges and TSC county directors dated July 27, Mrs Macharia said with effect from September, the tutors will be paid by the department of vocational and technical training. TUTORS TRANSFERRED The tutors who were transferred to PSC effective July 1 are those in national polytechnics, technical institutes and vocational training institutes. She said lecturers who will retire by August 31 will have their retirement benefits processed by TSC while those retiring with effect from September 1 will have their benefits processed by the Ministry of Education. “All requests for transfers within TVET institutions have been deferred until September 1,” added the circular. MEDICAL COVER Mrs Macharia explained that lecturers in the affected institutions will continue to benefit from the current medical and health cover negotiated between TSC and Minet (Kenya) up to September 30. “Any lecturer who is not on TSC payroll owing to, inter alia, a pending disciplinary process, unpaid study leave, or for any other reason, will be expected to immediately report to TSC to initiate the process for transfer of service,” reads the circular. Mrs Macharia added that lecturers with any concerns can contact the commission or the Ministry of Education. “Those who wish to join the Ministry from TSC other than those currently deployed to TVET institutions will be expected to apply for jobs when they are advertised by the Public Service Commission,” added Mrs Macharia. TVET ACT The move to transfer the tutors follows the enactment of the TVET Act, 2013, which transferred technical training functions from TSC to PSC. They were also transferred due to tough recruitment requirements by TSC. Technical and Vocational Education and Training Principal Secretary Kevit Desai cited TSC’s inability to recognise the qualifications of tutors who undergo training through the TVET training path in their career progression. Dr Desai said for instance, a trainer with a higher national diploma who scored C- in Form Four cannot be hired by TSC. But under the new scheme, such trainers will only be required to provide their highest qualifications to be hired or promoted, he said. The government has since announced plans to increase the current enrolment of students in technical and vocational training institutes from the current 180,000 to 3.1 million.  