The political Rift between ODM and Coast MPs deepened on Wednesday when the lawmakers demanded immediate revocation of disciplinary letters sent to Msambweni MP Suleiman Dori and his Malindi counterpart Aisha Jumwa. The lawmakers, under the auspices of the Coast Parliamentary Group, accused ODM of curtailing the political freedom of leaders from the Coast region. Led by the deputy chairman of the group Sadia Hiribae, the lawmakers said they were not happy with a show-cause letter from ODM chairman John Mbadi addressed to the two leaders concerning recent utterances attributed to them and considered to be against party ideals. The MPs included Said Hiribae (Galole), Rehema Hassan (Tana River), Athman Shariff (Lamu East), Ruweida Mohammed (Lamu), Ali Mbogo (Kisauni), Stanely Muthama (Lamu West), Badi Twalib (Jomvu), Jones Mlolwa (Voi), Paul Katana (Kaloleni), Andrew Mwadime (Mwatate), Benjamin Tayari (Kinango), Danson Mwakuwona (Wundanyi). DISCIPLINARY LETTERIn the disciplinary letter, the two lawmakers have been accused of skipping ODM parliamentary group meetings held in March and July this year and making unsubstantiated claims and wild allegations which are tantamount to termination of their membership from ODM. In the disciplinary letter, the Orange party has expressed its displeasure with Ms Jumwa over remarks she made in July where she said, “People should not attack me, they should attack Raila Odinga who forgot all the efforts that the Opposition had in store for Kenya and supported the Jubilee administration.” Ms Jumwa also said: "I have no contract with ODM." “These pronouncements are tantamount to a declaration of termination of or intention to terminate your membership of the party,” reads part of the letter. The party gave the two seven days to show cause why disciplinary action should not be taken against them. POLITICAL OPINION “We will not allow ODM to mistreat some of our members. The letter they have written to the two members goes against the democratic right of expressing a political opinion,” Mr Hiribae said. Mr Mbogo, on his part, said no leader from the Coast region has announced quitting ODM and, therefore, the disciplinary letter amounts to intimidation. “We have seen our leaders shaking hands with everyone and no action has been taken against them,” Mr Mbogo said. Ms Hassan said ODM leader Raila Odinga himself breached the party’s constitution when he shook hands with President Uhuru Kenyatta and expressed support to a rival party. BREACHED PARTY CONSTITUTION “Mr Odinga led us and we are just following; he breached the party’s constitution and no action was taken against him,” Ms Hassan said. “As Coast people, we have stood with Raila Odinga for a long time and we will not allow any of our members to be intimidated just because they have expressed their democratic right,” she added. Ms Jumwa and Dori have been at loggerheads with ODM over their new-found political dalliance with Deputy President William Ruto.   MPs told Mr Joho to work with them if he is to remain relevant.