Q. As I write this, I am very frustrated. For three years now, my degree in business administration does not seem to help me. I have been applying for jobs that I feel qualified for, but I have received regret letters one after the other. Many more have not been responded to. There are no hopes for better employment in the organisation where I am currently working as a casual labourer loading luggage. What exactly could be the problem?  The hope of all graduating students as they sit in the scorching sun, waiting to be given ‘power to read and all that appertains to their degree’ is to land that elusive job and start earning income to sustain their livelihood and to give back to their parents or guardians who sacrificed to have them educated. My reassurance to you is that, this is a journey shared by most of your classmates and you will conquer as long as you focus and ensure you don’t succumb to hopelessness. Currently; the job market is flooded with both university and diploma graduates all looking for that elusive job. As a starting point, explore new skills that are required in the job market. To give you an idea,most organisations are currently looking for digital talent to manage their digital platforms and other online initiatives. There are also online jobs, which you can do on part time basis. If this option works, then the income earned can assist you pursue courses in new and relevant skills required in the job market. I am not sure what documents you presented to HR when you were applying for your current job. Engage them, and let them know about your qualifications and interests. You could also offer to volunteer in the relevant department as per your specialisation a few hours each day to gain practical experience. If this does not yield any results, you could consider getting experience by seeking internship opportunities elsewhere, you don’t necessary ask for payment even though most organisations offer the students a stipend to facilitate them. You can also volunteer your services to a church, hospital, a charitable organisation or your former school. This way you will gain experience and network with people who can expose you to other opportunities. Do not be discouraged by regret letters or no responses. This should prepare you to accept rejection even in different spheres of your life. I am sure even for your current role, there were many applicants who were not given the opportunity yet you got the job.   It would have been prudent to check what your employment contract stipulates.