Who will bag the bragging rights in this weekend's lakeside derby? This is the question that lingers on the minds of football enthusiast in Kisumu, ahead of the thrilling National Super League (NSL) clash between Western Stima and Kisumu All-Stars at Moi Stadium, Kisumu on Saturday. Stakes will be high when the two sides lock horns from 3pm, having battled to a barren draw in their first leg encounter at the same venue. As witnessed in the first meeting, the exhilarating encounter is expected to attract a mammoth of crowd in support of their respective teams. While Stima will be seeking to solidify their lead atop of the standings as they see to return to the the SportPesa Premier League, debutantes All-Stars will also go full throttle as they look to claim maximum points. The cash-strapped All-Stars are ranked 10th on 37 points and a win on Saturday will propel them to position eight, depending on the outcome of Friday's match between St Joseph Youth and Coast Stima. Stima coach Paul Ogai, who is a former All-Stars assistant coach, expects fireworks in the encounter as he looks to outsmart his former boss Nick Aketch. The power men will be looking to continue with their impressive form and will also bank on their home advantage to emerge winners in the clash. Coach Ogai said that mental preparedness will also determine which side carries the day. "It is a derby therefore it will not be easy, the stakes will be high and it will not only depend on how well you are prepared physically, but also mentally. “The league is becoming increasingly competitive and any slight laxity or weakness will definitely benefit the opponent which we are trying to avoid,” said Ogai. On the other hand Aketch stated: " As a team, we have prepared well and ready for the contest, stakes are high for both sides but at the end of the day it's the team that shall score more goals that will smile. We must improve on our finishing and midfield if we must get at least some goals.” Fixtures Saturday: St Joseph Youth v Coast Stima (Afraha Stadium, 12noon) Kangemi All-stars v Talanta (Hope Center, 2pm) Western Stima v Kisumu All-stars (Moi Stadium, 3pm) Nairobi City Stars v Bidco United (Camp Toyoyo, 3pm) Green Commandos v GFE 105 (Bukhungu Stadium, 3pm)  