Police in Uganda’s Kagadi District have arrested three young supporters of the ruling National Resistance Movement (NRM) who were reportedly planning to stage a protest against the arrest and torture of Kyaddondo East MP Robert Kyagulanyi, popularly as Bobi Wine, and Francis Zaake, the Mityana Municipality MP. Mr Livingstone Akugizibwe, the Ndaiga Sub-County District Councillor, Mr Junior Katusabe, the Kamina Parish Chief and Mr Horreb Turyamwesimira, a youth activist, were arrested on Sunday at Nuel Guest House where they were meeting to organise the peaceful protest planned for Monday. SOLIDARITY Before their arrest, they argued that their demonstration was intended to show solidarity with victims of torture. ‘‘We should come and communicate to the party (NRM) leaders that even after the MPs are released from prison, we shall continue to remind them of their obligations to protect citizens especially where you have the ability to arrest a citizen,” Mr Katusabe said. But before the planning meeting could end, they were rounded up by police officers who were commanded by Mr Julius Jjingo, the officer in Charge Kagadi Police Station. They were taken to Kagadi Police Station where they are being detained. UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY Mr Jjingo said the suspects will be charged with two counts of holding unlawful assembly and incitement to violence. “We managed to retrieve some placards and other materials which they intended to use. Of course this was an illegal demonstration,’’ Mr Jjingo said. He said some of the placards were inscribed with words like “Free Bobi Wine”, “The Youth want a free country”. As they were being led into the police cells, they sang the Ugandan national anthem and insisted that Bobi Wine must be set free. Mr Kyagulanyi was last week charged with unlawful possession of firearms and ammunition before the General Court Martial that was chaired by Gen Andrew Gutti in Gulu. He was remanded in Makindye Military barracks in Kampala until August 23. He was arrested on Monday together with other MPs who have also appeared before the Gulu Chief Magistrate’s court and charged with treason and remanded until August 30. The politicians were detained following chaos and violence on the last day of Arua Municipality by-election campaigns.   Army and police arrest at least 10 as they protest Bobi Wine arrest.