The High Court will on Tuesday rule on ownership of the controversial Sh3.2 billion Ruaraka land, portending serious consequences for all those involved in the saga. The ruling may lead to prosecutions or the halting of investigations into one of Kenya’s most intricate land cases that has seen accusations of corruption levelled against powerful government officials and MPs. The Land and Environment Court will confront a question posed by the National Land Commission (NLC) seeking to confirm the owner of the land on which Drive Inn Primary and Ruaraka Secondary schools in Nairobi stand. Two committees of the Senate and the National Assembly have sharply differed over the role of Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i in the likely loss of Sh1.5 billion paid out to Afrison Import Export and Huelands as compensation for the land. POSSIBLE PROSECUTION The two teams also failed to agree as to whether the land belongs to the public or it is privately owned. NLC is also seeking orders to halt all criminal and civil proceedings against all individuals accused of corruption regarding the land until the case is heard and determined. If the court grants the commission its wishes, the Director of Public Prosecutions, Director of Criminal Investigations and the Ethics, Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) and all other courts currently handling matters relating to the land, will technically be stopped from proceeding until the case is concluded. The EACC wants the DPP to prosecute the officials, including Dr Matiang’i and Education Principal Secretary Belio Kipsang, who seems to have been let off the hook by a National Assembly report. If the court determines that the land belongs to the public, as has been argued by EACC, it would open the door for possible prosecution of officials named in the land deal. LAND COMPENSATION The case comes amid mounting confusion among various investigating agencies as to whether a crime was committed in the Sh1.5 billion paid for the schools’ land. The Sunday Nation saw a trove of classified documents that reveal the anatomy of the “land compensation” that involves the ministries of Education, Lands, Treasury, Attorney General’s Office and the National Land Commission. An analysis of all the documents, it would now appear, seem to suggest that the big question, whose answer will make or break the EACC’s case, is whether the land is privately or publicly owned. So bad has been the vicious interests in the matter, that there have been claims that some senators demanded up to Sh100 million in bribes to write a favourable report, allegations that are being investigated. SH3.2 BILLION The most glaring contradiction has come from the Senate and National Assembly that have divergent views on the matter, raising questions over the objectivity of their reports. In its investigations, the National Assembly’s Departmental Committee on Lands, chaired by Dr Rachel Nyamai, found out that the NLC failed to secure the interests of the government in the land in terms of formally taking over possession of the title. “Title documents of the 96 acres being the land where the two schools occupy were never presented to the Committee yet the NLC approved the payment of Sh3.2 billion as compensation,” the report says. Already, Sh1.5 billion of the cash has been paid out. The Committee ruled that records presented to it provided proof that the land belonged to Afrison Import Export Ltd and Huelands Ltd contrary to EACC’s findings. CONFIDENTIAL REPORT But the team noted a contradiction that an allotment letter for the land had been issued to Ruaraka High School by the Commissioner of Lands. According to the National Assembly Committee, the government had previously compensated Afrison Import Export Ltd and Huelands Ltd Sh4.3 billion for portions of the 96 acres, yet no transfer had been made to the government. The Committee blamed EACC’s investigations into the issue at the time, dismissing the commission’s confidential report as shallow. The commission, said the MPs, failed to safeguard against the loss of the public funds pending the conclusion of the investigations. They recommended no action against Dr Matiang’i and Dr Kipsang and instead recommended that Prof Swazuri and other NLC commissioners be held personally responsible for, among other reasons, failing to secure the interests of the government in the deal. INVESTIGATIONS Although Dr Nyamai’s team did not directly link Dr Matiang’i and Dr Kipsang to any form of crime in the land deal, Senate’s Committee on County Public Accounts and Investments recommended that the two be held responsible. The Committee, chaired by Homa Bay senator Moses Kajwang', suggested that the two be investigated further and, if found culpable, be prosecuted for occasioning the loss of Sh1.5 billion. The team blamed the two officials of ignoring the recommendations of a report of Quality Assurance and Standards Assessment which established that the land on which Ruaraka High School was built was public land. This finding ran counter to that of Dr Nyamai’s team, which insisted the land was private. Mr Kajwang’s team also recommended that the DCI and EACC carry out investigations in the circumstances that caused Dr Matiang’i and Dr Kipsang to “ignore the recommendations of the Quality Assurance and Standards Assessment Report”. THREE MONTHS The team also called for investigations and possible prosecution of Prof Swazuri and other senior NLC officials in connection to the land deal. Most of the decisions of the senate are expected to be executed within a period of three months. In court documents filed in response to the NLC case, EACC blamed Dr Matiang'i and Dr Kipsang for the Sh1.5 billion pay out. The commission is also demanding that the businessman, who was paid for the land, deposit the cash in court. “The Cabinet Secretary formally requested the applicant to commence the process leading to the acquisition of the schools’ land on the pretext that it was private land,” the commission said. Businessman Francis Mburu was paid the Sh1.5 billion. FREEHOLD TENURE In the application, the NLC further wants an order stopping all civil and criminal proceedings in relation to the compulsory acquisition of the land by the Ministry of Education. The EACC has filed an affidavit opposing the NLC application, arguing that stopping the cases will defeat investigations. In the application, the anti-graft agency said the NLC requests were against public interest and will prevent the EACC from seeking to recover the Sh1.5 billion. The case could not proceed last week after the NLC asked the court to take the file to the Chief Justice to consider its request for three judges to hear the suit. The EACC said it would be in the interest of justice that the businessman be ordered to deposit in court Sh1.5 billion pending the conclusion of the suit. "It would also be in the interest of justice that the balance of the compensation be preserved by stopping any further payment through an order of this court," Alfred Mwendwa, an investigator said in a statement. Through lawyer Tom Ojienda, NLC said a search, and records held by the Ministry of Lands and Physical Planning, show the property is held on freehold tenure and is registered under Afrison Export Import Ltd and Huelands Ltd, which are associated with Mr Mburu.   Businessman Francis Mburu sought temporary orders stop anti-graft detectives from questioning him.