Kenya on Sunday retained the girls’ football title at the Brookside East Africa Secondary School Games concluded here at the Ubworoherane Stadium. Kwale Girls wrote their names in the games’ history books after a 1-0 win over Uganda’s Kawempe Muslim Secondary School in the final to clinch the title on their maiden show at the annual regional showpiece. Kwale skipper Elizabeth Katungwa, just like she did last month to help her side clinch their maiden national title in Eldoret, popped up to score a last-gasp winner with the game seemingly headed for extra time. The forward escaped her marker and managed to slot the ball past Kawempe keeper Juliet Adeko. There was barely time for Kawempe to restart the match as the final whistle followed instantly with Kwale Girls breaking into song dance, while for their opponents, it was pain and dismay after losing a second straight final in agonizing fashion. They will have to wait a little longer to add to their 2012 title in Bujumbura. Burundi. Last year, the Ugandans lost out on the title once again in Gulu to Kenya’s Wiyets Girls, who beat them 3-1 on post-match penalties. Wiyeta keeper Diana Tembesi was the heroine that day as she saved three penalties. Yesterday, it was Katungwa who proved to be her team’s saviour with the winning goal to complete a remarkable year for the Coastal lasses, who last year finished last in their pool during the National Term Two Games in Nyeri. The Form Four student said their victory underlined their determination and hardwork since the beginning of the year. Meanwhile, Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya has hailed Kwale Girls for winning the 2018 Brookside East Africa Secondary School Games football title in Musanze, Rwanda. “Most of these girls are in the Kwale County team and the coaches have been on camp for more than a month through the county government's initiative of promoting talent," Mvurya said. Additional reporting by Eunice Murathe   St Anthony’s cemented their place as the most successful boys’ team in the region.