The ongoing demolition of structures built on riparian land is a confirmation of the impunity that has reigned in Nairobi for many years and an indictment of the regulatory bodies charged with enforcing urban development laws and regulations. Unscrupulous developers working in cahoots with dishonest government officers charged with enforcing the law easily get away with glaring illegalities and irregularities. Their structures are built on riparian land, public spaces and road reserves or in violation of zoning regulations. The government should also reclaim grabbed public spaces and road reserves. However, we must look at the root cause of these problems for a sustainable solution to be prescribed. The 1948 Nairobi Master Plan indicates that planning was based on the neighbourhood concept with adequate provision for public spaces and protection of natural resources such as rivers. But implementation was largely abandoned and compromises made. UNCONTROLLED DEVELOPMENT The 1973 version equally had progressive recommendations but, again, implementation was minimal. Uncontrolled development crept in and facilities such as public spaces increasingly came under threat from developers. The capital city now has the Nairobi Integrated Urban Development Master Plan (Niuplan). It is, therefore, clear that the development challenges we are dealing with have resulted from the lack of proper implementation of plans and weak enforcement of physical development laws. Lack of commitment and political goodwill made the unscrupulous developers and corrupt public officers bolder. While the demolitions may serve to reclaim the riparian and road reserves as well as public spaces and, perhaps, send out a warning to those intending to engage in illegal development, it is not a sustainable solution to the broader urban development problems Nairobi faces. We need to employ a multi-dimensional approach that takes into consideration both preventive and curative measures. URBAN DEVELOPMENT The Nairobi City County government must implement the integrated master plan, which provides a guiding framework to manage urban development. Strict adherence to the plan will provide spatial order of physical investments and ensure that no approvals are given for structures on riparian land, public spaces and road reserves. Implementation of the plan, coupled with strict enforcement of physical development laws, will prevent the construction of illegal structures and secure the reserves and public spaces. There is also a need to strengthen coordination among the various urban development regulatory bodies. The buck-passing and blame game that have been displayed confirm that the agencies don’t consult among themselves before final approvals are given. The county government, the National Environment Management Authority and Water Resources Authority, among others, should not work in isolation, but rather coordinate their activities to ensure only developments that are in strict compliance with the law and urban development plans are approved. ILLEGAL STRUCTURES Design, approval and the construction of any physical development involves professionals. Some of them are, therefore, accomplices in the development of illegal structures and must be held responsible. Professional bodies must call out their members involved in illegal practices and discipline them. This will ensure that they uphold integrity and refuse to facilitate illegalities. Finally, the war against illegal physical development cannot be won without communities. A number of residents’ associations have been consistent and passionate about protecting their neighbourhoods from unscrupulous developers keen on grabbing public spaces or constructing on riparian land or road reserves. It is important for the government to support such efforts by engaging with the residents’ associations and other community groups. The Community and Neighbourhood Associations Engagement Act recently enacted in Nairobi, which provides a legal framework for engagement with the residents’ associations and the promotion of their activities that are complementary to the work of the government, should be implemented. Organised community groups can be very effective allies of the government in the fight against illegal development. Mr Ochieng is CEO, The Kenya Alliance of Resident Associations (Kara). hochieng@kara.or.ke  