Former champions Butali Sugar Warriors crushed Kenya College of Accountancy University (KCA-U) 5-1 at City Park stadium, Nairobi to three points clear at the top of the men's Hockey Premier League on Sunday. After leading 1-0 at the break from Barnabas Odhiambo's scintillating 10th minute field goal, Butali Sugar turned on the style scoring four more goals, two from penalty corners and one from the spot. Brian Musasia and Zack Aura slotted home in the 32nd and 42nd minutes from penalty corners respectively, before Constant Wakhura converted from the spot in the 55th minute. Then Emmanuel Simiyu would put the 2015 champions beyond reached with a screaming volley from a tight corner three minutes to time. The victory saw Butali Sugar open up a three-point lead at the top of the league with 33 points. Defending champions Kenya Police, who were not in action this weekend, stay second with 30 points. Greensharks, who earlier on claimed a swift revenge, downing former champions Strathmore Gladiators 3-1, consolidated their third place in the league with 23 points. Butali Warriors coach Dennis Owoka hailed the victory saying it was bound to be tough considering that six of his key players were missing in action including defender Rashid Said, Robert Amadi and Richard Amadi. "Collecting 10 goal in two matches shows that we are on the right track," said Owoka. “I was forced to use some of my midfield players in defence with only three substitutes.” Strathmore had beaten Greensharks 5-1 in the first leg. Samuel Namonyo was fed inside the 23 metre from the centre field, before taking a lovely turn to smack in in the 20th minute to give Greensharks a 1-0 lead at the break. Benson Ochieng stretched Greensharks lead to 2-0, when he scored from a counter attack in the 36th minute. Strathmore skipper Festus Onyango pulled one back for Gladiators in the 44th minute, but six minutes to full time, Mathew Kiplagat put Greensharks beyond reach when he slotted home off a foul. "Our concentration and fitness levels improved this time around and thanks to the boys for the good display and results," said Greensharks coach Nixon Nyaganga, adding that there is still hope for the title, though it will be an uphill task to bridge the gap between them and the top two. With the defeat, three-time winners Strathmore have now lost all hope of recapturing the Premier League title. They are placed seventh with 16 points. "We can only battle to finish fourth in the league," said the Gladiators coach Meshack Senge. "We gifted them their second and third goals but again it's a learning curve."  