The Kenya Meteorological Department has warned Kenyans to brace themselves for heavy rains in several parts of the country from Monday. The director of Meteorological Services, Mr Peter Ambenje, said most parts of the country will experience increased rainfall intensities and amounts of more than 40mm. RAIN “Heavy rainfall of more than 40mm in 24 hours is expected from Tuesday 13th March, 2018 over Western, South and Central Rift Valley and Central Kenya including Nairobi area. “The rainfall will, however, not be as heavy as the one experienced in the recent wet spell,” Mr Ambenje said on Friday. He added that the heavy rainfall is likely to continue next week Wednesday over counties in the South Rift Valley, southeastern lowlands, northern and central Kenya, and Nairobi. Western, Coast, northern Kenya, Rift Valley, Central and southeastern lowlands are expected to continue receiving heavy rainfall on Thursday and Friday. Counties to receive heavy rainfall are Bomet, Isiolo, Kajiado, Kakamega, Kiambu, Kericho, Kilifi, Kisii, Kitui, Kwale, Lamu, Machakos, Makueni, Marsabit, Migori, Mombasa, Murang’a, Nairobi, Nakuru, Narok, Nyeri, Samburu, Taita Taveta, Turkana and Wajir. FLASH FLOODS Mr Ambenje, however, said that counties which border Tanzania, such as Kajiado, Kwale, Narok and Taita Taveta, will start experiencing moderate rainfall from Saturday. The weatherman warned residents in urban areas to be on the lookout for flash floods. He said floodwater may suddenly appear in areas where it has not rained heavily and can be deeper and fast-moving than it appears. Mr Ambenje urged Kenyans to stay on safer grounds until the flooding subsides. “Do not walk in moving water or drive through it. Continue listening to local media as updates will be provided if conditions change significantly. “Further advisories will be issued as we follow the progress of this weather event,” he said. FORECAST According to the latest five-day weather forecast released on Friday covering between March 10 and 14, counties in the Lake Victoria Basin, including Homa Bay, Kisumu, Migori and Siaya, will experience sunny intervals in the morning giving way to showers and thunderstorms over several places in the afternoon for the next five days. A similar weather pattern will also be experienced in the counties of Baringo, Bomet, Bungoma, Busia, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Kajiado, Kakamega, Kericho, Kisii, Laikipia, Nakuru, Nandi, Narok, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Uasin Gishu and Vihiga. But the South Rift, particularly Narok, will receive relatively heavier showers on Tuesday and Wednesday afternoon. Counties in Central highlands such as Embu, Kiambu, Kirinyaga, Meru, Murang'a, Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri and Tharaka-Nithi are expected to experience morning rains from Tuesday, giving way to showers over several places to the end of the forecast period. Southeastern lowlands, covering counties of Kitui, Machakos, Makueni and Taita Taveta, is expected to experience morning rains and afternoon showers over several places from Wednesday to the end of the forecast period. SUNNY Northwestern counties of Samburu, Turkana and West Pokot are expected to experience sunny intervals in the morning for much of the forecast period with possibilities of rains in the afternoon from Wednesday to the end of the forecast period. A similar weather pattern is set to be experienced in the coastal strip covering Kilifi, Kwale, Lamu, Mombasa and Tana River counties. The northeastern region, covering Garissa, Isiolo, Mandera, Marsabit and Wajir counties, is expected to experience sunny intervals with possibilities of showers only on the last day of the forecast.  