ODM should be named the official opposition party following the meeting between its leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta. National Assembly Leader of Majority Aden Duale on Saturday said the party can check the Jubilee administration to ensure it delivers. WORK TOGETHER He said the Opposition and the Government can differ on policy issues but should work together to unify the country. "For the interest of the country and for our people let us now follow the examples of the two leaders so that on matters of national interest we speak same language," said Mr Duale. "Let ODM act as official opposition we [Jubilee] act as ruling party." Mr Duale spoke in Garissa during the homecoming party of county secretary Abdisheikh Muhumed Ali. President Kenyatta and Mr Odinga met on Friday morning and resolved to work together for the good of Kenyans. SUPPORT Meanwhile, Garissa MCAs allied to Nasa said they support Mr Odinga’s move. At a press conference on Saturday, they said he had demonstrated true statesmanship by choosing to put the country's interest first. Minority Leader Mohamed Ali Sheikh said Mr Odinga’s move was bold and it will help heal and reconcile Kenyans. The MCAs defended Mr Odinga for meeting with President Kenyatta without other principals. LEADER They said he represented other Nasa leaders just as Mr Kenyatta represented other Jubilee leaders. "Over the past years, Kenya was caught up in a tug-of-war between political formations in their push for a democratic nation. “This has resulted in deep and bitter political divisions, disagreement and ethnicity. We witness a continued decay of relationship between ethnic communities," said the minority leader, who is also the Abakaile MCA. He added: "It is our hope that the two leaders will join efforts and promote national ethos, enhance inclusivity, strengthen devolution, end the cancer of divisive elections, win the war on corruption, [and] promote shared prosperity.” Other MCAs present at the press conference included Abdirizack Ismail (Galbet), Gedi Adow (nominated), Diriye Bare (Damajaley) and Adow Omar (Hulugho).   It was an agreement between two individuals, he says.