Five-time African champions Kenya Prisons will launch their title campaign for 2018 Women’s Africa Club Volleyball Championship against Customs of Nigeria at the Al Ahly Sports Hall in Cairo from 8pm EAT on Wednesday. This will be the first match for Prisons in the competition, after which they will play Cote d’Ivoire’s Asec on Thursday. Prisons will then come up against Douannes of Burundi on Friday and wrap up their Group D games with an enthralling battle against Injis of Cameroon who are chasing their first silverware in the competition. Being the only team to have won a trophy at the continental level, Prisons are considered overwhelming favourites in Pool D, but coach David Lung’aho has cautioned his players against underrating their opponents. “It may look like we are in an easy pool but we cannot allow ourselves to be distracted. We will approach every match with caution because all our opponents will be coming at us with the desire to win,” he said. Lung’aho has put together a formidable squad captained by Kenyan international Mercy Moim and budding setter Joy Luseneka who has been summoned to fill the shoes of the experienced Jane Wacu, who is away on attachment with Seychellois club Anse Royale (ARSU). The Prisons squad has also benefitted from the return of libero Elizabeth Wanyama who has been away on maternity leave. Kenya Pipeline are Kenya’s other representatives in the competition, and were expected to begin their campaign Tuesday night against former champions Al Shams of Egypt. The 10-day competition has attracted 20 other clubs. Squads: Pipeline: Trizah Atuka (captain), Noel Murambi, Leonida Kasaya, Celestine Nafula, Monica Biama, Naomi Too, Rose Jepkosgei, Yvonne Sinaida, Janet Wanja, Agrippina Kundu, Rael Tebla, Esther Wangeci, Lucy Akinyi, Christine Ngugi Coach: Japheth Munala Assistant coach: Margaret Indakala Prisons: Mercy Moim (captain), Joy Luseneka, Herma Jepyegon, Loise Jepkosgei, Edith Wisa, Emmaculate Chemtai, Shyrine Jepkemboi, Diana Khisa, Lorine Chebet, Everlyne Makuto, Sharon Chepchumba, Yvonne Wavinya, Elizabeth Wanyama, Judith Tarus. Coach: David Lung’aho Assistant coach: Josp Baraza  