Residents of Marigat town in Baringo South Sub-County are living in fear following recurring earth tremors. According to locals, the tremors recurred three times on Thursday alone and that they felt them, though slightly, last week. A two-storey building cracked but did not collapse. A resident, Ms Agnes Cheptepkei, said the tremors were experienced after another one occurred a week ago. “The one which we felt last week lasted about 20 seconds but on Thursday it was of high intensity and it lasted for more than 45 seconds. "People here are so worried and even fear sleeping in their houses for fear that the movement would recur,” Ms Cheptekei said. GEOLOGYShe said she was sleeping when the tremor occurred and due to the shaking, she fell off her bed. “I was forced to get out of the house and I saw people running out of their homes too. I live adjacent to the building that cracked and I was forced to go and sleep at a neighbour’s house in the outskirts of the town for fears that the building would collapse,” Ms Cheptekei said. The first tremor started in the morning, the second at 2pm lasting for 45 seconds and the last one at 4pm, which lasted for more than one minute. Nominated MCA Francis Kibai asked the government to send geologists to the region to unravel the cause of the tremors to avert disasters. “The tremors are causing tension in this region and residents fear going about their normal duties. "The geysers, which had been submerged at Lake Bogoria some years back, are now resurfacing, an indication that something is happening in this region," Mr Kibai said. FLOODSBaringo Deputy Governor Jacob Chepkwony asked residents living in flood and landslide-prone areas to be cautious and move to higher grounds to avoid disasters following the rains. Citing Salabani, Eldume, Ngambo, Kampi ya Samaki, Kiserian, Mogotio and Kapcheluguny, which are flood prone, Mr Chepkwony cautioned residents to be on the look out for rising water levels as the wet season picks up. The deputy governor further advised locals in landslide-prone areas of Sacho, Tenges, Sirwo, Kibonjos, Kapropita, Talai and Sumeiyon to be on the look out. The geological department has also warned of landslides if the heavy rains persist and urged residents living in areas such as Kabasis, Ng’etmoi and Timboiywo to be cautious.  