Two pupils are recovering at Meru Level Five Hospital after they were injured when strong winds blew off roofs at Maburwa Primary School in Tigania East. Eight other pupils and a teacher were treated and discharged after the 3pm incident on Monday that saw four classrooms and the staff-room affected. Buuri chief John Mamira said victims were injured when pieces of timber from the roof fell on them. In Mandera County, farmers are counting losses after floods washed away their crops. Farmers were affected by a swollen River Daua following heavy rains in the Ethiopian highlands. According to a preliminary floods assessment report by the Agriculture docket, losses are estimated at Sh115 million after 932 acres of food crops were ruined. This is expected to hit food security. FLOODS County executive for agriculture Johara Mohamed said a majority of the rural population depended on farming for a livelihood. “The floods have brought farming to a near standstill, a situation expected to persist for the next 30 days or even longer,” reads the report. Access to rivers for domestic use was also affected with fears that stagnant waters could lead to malaria, dengue fever and chikungunya outbreaks due to breeding of mosquitoes. In Nyeri County, one person was injured on Monday night after a lorry overturned at Mwireri on the Mweiga–Chaka Road following heavy rains. The lorry, ferrying construction poles, overturned after a section of the road, which has been under construction for several years, caved in. “The lorry has been here all night. The contractor would not even help us tow it away yet they are the reason the road is in this state,” said Mr Githaiga Mwaniki. Locals protested that the contractor had refused to put up a temporary diversion during the construction, rendering the road impassable especially during the rainy season. BLOCKAGES Other parts of Nyeri also suffered destruction with many drainage systems flooding due to blockages, according to county executive for infrastructure Muthui Kariuki. Areas of Asian Quarters in Nyeri town were flooded after the Monday downpour. Most traders were forced to close their businesses as their premises were flooded. In addition, a section of the perimeter wall of Kenya Red Cross offices in Ruring’u collapsed but no casualties were reported following the Monday night rains. Authorities are also on high alert at Mukurweini and Kieni areas which are prone to landslides and floods. NAROK FLOODS In Narok County, flash floods have become the order of the day in Suswa on the Narok-Mai Mahiu Road for the last one week causing massive traffic jams and inconveniencing motorists. The government Tuesday cautioned motorists using the route to be wary of silt and debris on sections of the road near Suswa trading centre to avoid accidents or being swept away. Acting Kenya Meteorology Department director-general Peter Ambeje had said in a statement last Friday that heavy rains will start on Monday in several areas including Narok. Other areas mentioned include Kisii, Kericho, Bomet, Migori, Kakamega, Kajiado, Nakuru and Kwale. For the last one week, motorists have been adversely affected by flood waters from Suswa escarpment which roar down the hills to the lower lying area, cutting off the Narok-Nairobi highway. The floods in Suswa often appear suddenly and deep. Last Sunday, passengers were stuck at Suswa following a heavy downpour that caused flooding in two different spots along the highway.  By David Muchui, Manase Otsialo, Nicholas Komu and George Sayagie  