There is a well-kept secret hidden in plain sight about the growing success among women. It’s subtly weaving its way through from the older to the younger generation. Women support one another to succeed. Through collaborative efforts, women have empowered each other to succeed in their careers, businesses and in achieving personal development goals. Despite there being pressing areas where women are yet to fully achieve equality (such as the two third gender rule and the gender pay gap) it is worth celebrating what women are achieving through collaboration. There is a group of women I admire. They have endurance like no other. These are women in drought-prone areas; Garissa, Moyale and Marsabit, to name a few. As the men travel to distant areas in search of water and pasture for their animals, the women search for food and water for their children. YOUNGER GENERATIONWhile every news cycle may carry harrowing scenes of the gravity of the drought, the role of these women contributes to a re-imagination of the part played by women in the domestic economy. At the end of every drought cycle, having withstood the near-collapse of their livelihoods, these women work collaboratively to restore their lives over and over again. Among the younger generation, a collaboration that is unique and trendy is emerging among women social media influencers. These young women are visionary and deliberate in their support of each other. Using their YouTube channels, they have integrated each other’s work into their communications and consciously promote each other. COLLABORATIONNot only that; they go above and the extra mile by working on projects together. These women do not perceive each other as competitors, but as a source of knowledge, admiration and an underpinning sustenance system. Through their collaboration, they have proven they work to build each other’s success. Imagine for a second how far women would be if we all worked together? In our generation, we are now witnessing women who are occupying positions predominantly held by men in the past. LEADERSHIPWomen occupying these places have been conscious of the continued struggle borne by women in their career development journeys. The IMF Managing Director, Christine Lagarde, appointed Kenyan Nancy Asiko as the Director of the IMF’s Office of Independent Audit, replacing Clare Brady, who Lagarde had previously appointed to the position. Even more encouraging, for the first time in history, this year the UN achieved gender parity among its senior staff. If the champion of human rights and representative of nations can achieve gender equality, the Kenyan Cabinet should not be problematic. There are also numerous collaborative pursuits between politicians but none stands out as that Esther Passaris and Rachel Shebesh. Both women hail from different political parties, but despite their political differences, Passaris credited her political success to mentorship by Shebesh.CAMPS Unlike male politicians who cut each other down in public and call each other names on Twitter, these women accord each other respect and acknowledge each other’s achievements. It is uncommon to see such admiration genuinely vocalised in public from leaders in different political camps. And so, if women in politics collectively collaborate to encourage more women to join the political career, the two third gender rule will no longer be an aspiration. Finally, from a young age, teachers influence the women leaders we have today. Female teachers acknowledge leadership aptitude in girls and encourage them to take up leadership positions whether through direct appointment or a student body vote. The support goes on through accountability, reassurance and reinforcing decisions made. Whereas some girls may not hold leadership positions, through this witnessed encouragement, they gain confidence to progressively take a lead or put themselves forward for a leading position. So to all female teachers, keep empowering young girls who are our future leaders. CELEBRATION There is a non-exhaustive list of many more women collaborating in the success of women, ranging from our mothers, siblings, friends and colleagues. On March 8, the world will mark the International Women’s Day and celebrate acts of courage and determination by ordinary women playing extraordinary roles in our country and communities. Let us celebrate all women who are supporting others in their own unique way. The writer works with international businesses on commercial litigation. gladysburini1@gmail.com  