The Teachers Service Commission (TSC) has announced the recruitment of 900 tutors to work in Wajir County. This follows the transfer of non-local teachers from the county over insecurity. Chief executive officer Nancy Macharia said 585 teachers will be posted to primary schools and 315 to secondary schools in the county. Mrs Macharia said those eligible should be Kenyan citizens, aged 45 years and below, must have original professional and academic certificates, and must be registered teachers. “Teachers who are above 45 years can apply to be recruited on contractual terms. They will be recruited on a three-year renewable contract subject to performance,” she said. “Such teachers engaged on contract will not serve beyond the age of 65 years,” Mrs Macharia added. The TSC boss said those interested in the positions should submit their applications by March 27. INSECURITYThis is the second attempt by TSC to recruit local teachers in the region, which has been characterised by insecurity for a long time. In some cases in the past, there were no applications from potential teachers as TSC only employs teachers who are trained and registered. Early this month, TSC announced new measures to address concerns that had been raised over the years by non-local teachers working in the region. Mrs Macharia directed that non-local teachers be posted to serve in schools near urban centres, where they can conveniently access accommodation, transport facilities and emergency services. RESIDENTSShe said the move would enhance their integration into the host community, and ease the burden of travelling long distances to their work stations. She said teachers who were faced with proven cases of insecurity and/or hostile working environment should be transferred urgently. Several teachers working in the North Eastern area have been camping at TSC offices to demand transfer from the region, where several of their colleagues have been killed since 2015. Last week, Knut Secretary-General Wilson Sossion moved a motion to compel the TSC to employ local teachers in regions experiencing insecurity.   Government urged to break silence on the on education crisis.