Police in Tharaka Nithi County have arrested three suspected bhang peddlers in Magutuni market, Maara Sub-County. In an intensified operation against drug dealers, police arrested the three suspects and recovered 945 rolls of bhang valued at Sh20, 000 stacked in a paper bag. Addressing journalists at his office on Friday, Maara police boss Johnston Kabusia said, the three will be arraigned in court and police had launched manhunt for the main suspect who managed to escape the laid trap. BOOMING BUSINESS “We will soon arrest the suspected criminal who fled because he is well known by police,” said Mr Kabusia. He noted that on Monday this week, the sub-county security committee formed a special police unit specifically to fight use of drugs and illicit brew. He added that the team comprising of officers from various police departments will be submitting a weekly report to the sub county security committee. Mr Kabusia said bhang business is booming especially amongst the youths and students with the bodaboda riders playing the key role in transportation and distribution of the drug. The officer said according to their investigations, the bhang is grown in Mount Kenya forest in large quantities after which the dry leaves are transported to the villages where they are processed and packaged. “We have identified about four families involved in growing of the drug and we are scouting on them,” he said. Mr Kabusia said in order to avoid being caught by police, the criminals involved in the trade had come up with a coded language only known to them. He noted that motorbikes used in transporting the bhang and areas where it’s sold are fitted with a scarf with Rastafarian colours which alerts the users. “On seeing the ‘flag’, the users know that the drug is sold at that particular point,” he said. The officer appealed with the members of the public to join the fight against use of the drug by informing the police and chiefs about the people involved in the business, for arrest and prosecution. In Murang'a County, police arrested a 28-year-old woman in Kenol town found in possession of bhang in the ongoing crackdown on second generation brews and drugs in the region. Kandara police boss Gregory Mutiso said the woman was arrested in her rental home in Kenol town with more than 300 rolls of bhang.  