Two past Fridays, the Brand Kenya Board launched the fashion Friday challenge. One that morphed seamlessly into the casual Friday themes, the one day in the week where most people heading to the office are likely to be at their worst sartorially. With branded company T-shirts, ill-fitting denims and a flailing attempt at trying to be casual on Fridays, Kenyans are the absolute worst when it comes to dressing down. When it comes to style we have two speeds – too much or whatever. It was worth following up on #fashionfridayke for traction and possibilities so I reached out to the Brand Kenya chief executive Mary Luseka. Excerpts:  Do you have any statistics on how the inaugural #fashionfridayke played out? Yes. On the first Friday we had over 181 engagements online with approximately 10,000 impressions and a total of over 114 likes generated. Recognising that the initiative begun on a slow footing, it has picked up tremendously with more influencers coming on board. We have had over 7,000 new followers in the past one and half months and are pleased with the responses especially on Twitter. This activation is run through our key handles @BrandKenya @MakeItKenya.  What did Team Brand Kenya think of the initial response to the hashtag? We were impressed given that this was day one of the campaign online. It showed a thirst for a platform Kenyans could showcase their love for their country. We recently ran #KenyaWristBandChallenge to back up #FashionFridayKE. This latter saw over 683 engagements. It was amazing how #s elicited passion and sharing of photos of their wristbands alongside  messages on love and pride for Kenya.  Will you be quantifying traction? Yes. We want to gauge the effectiveness of the campaign given that it is online. Aspects we will be looking at include number of corporates/government entities supporting the initiative, overall reach in terms of impressions, responses, retweets and others, number of Kenyan designers who may have gotten clients and recognition resulting from the campaign and its popularity. This adds up to impact of the campaign on the overall fashion industry based on our objectives and whether it meets the Big Four Agenda. The manufacturing industry is one of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s pillars, earmarked as a key driver in boosting our economic agenda in the next five years. It focuses on the leather and textile industry, both showing potential. That in turn has a ripple effect supporting the local fashion industry from manufacturers, fashion designers, stylists, models, and everyone along the value chain. In support, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Trade issued an internal circular declaring Friday an African and Kenyan wear day.  Are there brands gaining more recognition than others? Yes. Especially those benchmarking with us on this: Akinyi Adongo, Ann McCreath and the JW Show alongside others partnering with us. This is not to say we are not supporting other designers. We do in fact have a database of designers we are reaching out to. Kenyans, tag us when participating and mention designers dressing you. We need to recognise the talent out there. Our platform can be the starting point and the turnaround for that unknown seamstress out there. We want to mainstream the grassroots for the whole value chain to thrive. From that little seamstress in Kayole or Kariobangi to build brand names, not just sell designs. The big names have worked hard for their brands. By the end of the campaign, we want to be able to answer the question, “What are you wearing?” and “What is the story behind their brand?” Fashion Fridays creates a market for designers, both known and unknown.  Aside from a strong sense of national pride, what are some tangible ways in which you see social media influencing the industry? Social media has become the biggest tool in reinforcing messages and building brands out there. By leveraging it we reach and engage more Kenyans. Companies with higher levels of engagement on social media tend to grow their online sales and reach target audiences faster than those using traditional messaging. We are providing an opportunity to popularise our brands previously seen as lacking vibrancy to highlight what is now chic, trendy and affordable. Social media is instant impact. It injects personality making it easy for audiences to connect. We are looking at 40+million Kenyans connecting, appreciating and adopting locally-made fashion as a culture.   The Barclays Kenya Open 2018 turned 50 with style, with the genius idea of designing our first ever winner’s jacket locally.