Q. Is it possible to get fired because I don’t share similar political views to my bosses? I ask because a few days ago, during a meeting, I was tempted to speak my mind about the current state of politics in Kenya, views that didn’t seem to go down well with three of my bosses.  Many employers are not always clear how to preposition employees when it comes to political views at workplace. There are some who state clearly in their policies that political views are not welcome. Others shy away from making a clear statement and turn a deaf ear even when aware that informal discussions happen every now and then. My view is that we are social beings, and where people from different backgrounds gather, they will always discuss issues that matter to them, and politics, religious beliefs and relationships top the list. Many employers are very tolerant of the last two to an extent of providing informal forums that encourage employee participation. I am yet to see an employer who regularly provides a forum for their employees to share and discuss their political views though. And because such opportunities are missing, many workplaces in Kenya are polarised. It was good of you, therefore, to speak up rather than tolerate. But when speaking up about such matters, the timing must be right, and views must be shared objectively, respecting those who hold a different view. If it is a case where political views are being used to influence work-related decisions, approach the conversations with examples of cause and effect. In the case you present, it seems a discussion around politics was going on, and you joined in and shared your views just like others were doing. It would therefore be unprofessional if your seniors used your freedom of expression to victimise you in any way, including sending you packing. It is not only unprofessional, it is wrong, and you can contest if a termination decision is taken on these grounds. Instead of isolating you, your seniors should use the opportunity to affirm that every employee is free to express their political opinions while conducting themselves in a non-threatening or demeaning manner to their colleagues. My strong view is that any workplace that has, or encourages employees to have similar political views is just as good as any political party.  