The travails of Miguna Miguna at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) are disheartening. Make no mistake about it. Harrowing. It was proper that his sojourn in that space receives the sympathetic attention and positive intervention of all right-thinking actors in society. It is also inevitable that extensive discourse on a range of important issues was catalysed by the sad saga. The issues ranged from respective limits of State and judicial power; institutional interdependence and the need to build reliable social capital in order to overcome inevitable frictions; citizenship and its consequences; protection of human rights; immunity and impunity as well as contempt of court. COURT ORDERSMany commentators threw shade at Miguna Miguna. Others betrayed a jaundiced view of judges Roselyne Aburili and George Odunga, actively casting aspersions on their impartiality and imputing implicit bias on the basis of political allegiance. I take the view that both judges who conducted proceedings as well as Miguna as petitioner were exploited and betrayed by radicalised National Resistance Movement (NRM) politicians and activists who saw the cause as a vehicle to stage yet another showdown with the State. And in this they were cunning, adept and manipulative. Before Aburili was a petition under certificate of urgency, which alleged that the petitioner was being held incommunicado at the JKIA by state agencies in disregard of court orders, and that his fundamental human rights had been infringed and remained at great risk of greater violation. SANCTIONS Given these claims, and supported by an affidavit reinforcing them, a judge in the constitutional and human rights division would feel bound to take swift and proactive measures to mitigate violations and prevent future abuses. Hence the first ex parte orders. Afterwards, NRM advocates, acting for the petitioner, returned to court claiming the respondents in the petition had refused to comply with the court orders and were proceeding to compound the impunity of illegally incarcerating the petitioner, refusing him entry into the country among other grave allegations. Instead of inter partes hearing of the petition, the advocates were proceeding under the contempt of court statute, demanding draconian sanctions against the State and all recalcitrant officers. The State had filed its response to the initial petition, seeking to supply more information for the court to revisit its first-instance orders. But the court would not hear its side of the matter because it was in contempt. This contempt was framed with disarming simplicity: Where is the petitioner? Thus to the extent that the petitioner was not produced, or in any event present in court, it was clear the State was in contempt. Why? Because it had custody of the petitioner. AIRPORTNow, the petitioner was in the international section of the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. Whereas the facility is situated squarely on Kenyan soil, it possesses an anomalous character. An international airport performs the functions of a border and a port. Persons and goods from other countries enter and leave Kenya via these ports whilst others merely transit through it. Because these people are subject to all nations of the world, they are liberated from domestic law and protected by instruments of international law. As long as a person or goods have not entered Kenya, they are deemed to be ‘out there’, beyond the reach of our domestic institutions. This is why customs and immigration are present at the airport. CONTEMPT OF COURT That painless process: A stamp here, a form there, some slip and biometric scanners, is actually procedure to convert a traveller’s status into a subject of Kenyan jurisdiction by virtue of having formally and actually entered Kenya. Similarly, goods are formally cleared to enter Kenya as imports. The reverse also happens when exiting: There is a procedure for emigration and export and elaborate institutional support for it. Given these facts, a court order premised on the claim the petitioner is held incommunicado by the State at the JKIA is misdirected. That the order requires various state functionaries to facilitate the petitioner’s production in court is similarly ill-conceived. Tragically enough, at hearing, the NRM delegation framed contempt mischievously: “The petitioner is not in court, and the respondents were served; ergo: Contempt”. RULE OF LAW Beyond this point, the NRM prevailed on the court to disregard the possibility of a good explanation and simply bite. And bite Odunga did. Accompanied by much barking. Up a tree. Contempt of court occurs when a party aware of the court’s orders wilfully disobeys them. It is assumed court orders are rational — based on accurate or reliable fact, capable of enforcement and directed at the right and efficacious office and person. \ An order that is misdirected, or inherently incapable of effectuation does not suffer contempt, it is simply an absurd, mistaken, null order. Beyond, “Where is the thing?” the court must ask, “Why hasn’t the thing been produced?” This second question goes into capability, opportunity, and therefore, possibility and wilful disobedience. PRUDENCE It ensures that court decisions and orders are rational, based on the best decisions allowed by the soundest informational base. This requires opportunity to consider alternative perspectives, disclosure of a fuller picture and presentation of more and better facts. In other words, a sound decision requires proceedings involving all the parties. The right to a fair hearing is not just to benefit targets of judicial decisions. It also benefits judicial decision-makers and saves them from the embarrassment of irrational decisions and unenforceable orders that in themselves are a threat to the rule of law. CITIZENThus, by employing tactics to ensure that proceedings were substantially ex parte, the NRM courtroom brigade did a massive disservice to the judges and to the petitioner. It remains to be seen whether this extensive subterfuge gratified their real client(s). Since the petitioner had not entered Kenya, he remained outside the jurisdiction of the state. This means the orders premised on state custody of the petitioner were fundamentally problematic. Apropos of this, the court’s jurisdiction to handle the matter was equally problematic. Without jurisdiction, proceedings would be a nullity. We have been treated to much stentorian barking; all up the wrong tree. COURTSIn the ex parte mode, the court defaulted into a charged NRM tribunal. More than anything, the Miguna airport saga calls to question the juridical governance of those cases framed as urgent and heard ex parte. The court must exercise scepticism and restraint in such circumstances. Ex parte first-instance filings are necessarily and incomplete set of facts. Before all joined and interested parties respond, all proceedings are categorically contingent. Decisions with substantive bearing must be avoided or handled in delicate and tentative terms. A court proceeding ex parte always has the potential to be spectacularly despotic. The writer is an advocate of the High Court ericngeno@gmail.com  