Many of us in the technology field stand accused of making tech services and products appear unnecessary complex and difficult for the man-on-the street to grasp. They use tough tech-terms and complex explanations to describe what a piece of software or a device can do. For those whose tech lingo is not in their daily menu, using tech-terms to describe a product is a put off and often comes through as a show off. It sounds like an attempt to show the customer what you know instead of getting into his shoes to understand how the technology can solve his problem. PHONE FEATURESSample this, you go to a shop to buy a phone. You know many things but the technology not your forte. The seller shows you a phone and goes ahead to enthusiastically explain its features: It has 1GHz processor, LED, 5.8” Quad HD+ Super AMOLED display. He adds that the phone’s default resolution is Full HD+ and can be changed to Quad HD+ in Settings. The camera comes with super speed dual Pixel and 12MP AF sensor. Or, if you are out shopping for a TV set, the seller bombards you with a litany of features: LED, HDTV, 4K/UHD (3,840 x 2,160) resolution, 20-watt, downward firing speakers and 60 Hz panel refresh rates. Do you care? BENEFITSWhat most customers care for is what the TV or tech device will do for them, and how it is different from the others. They don’t want to hear the funny sounding features. They want to know the benefits. The conversation around features in most cases is a waste of time and is self-serving. The potential buyer gets confused and often gives up, or feels manipulated to buy something they didn’t need. Here is the point: If the seller cannot explain what the device can do in one sentence; if he cannot tell the benefits in simple sentences, then he or she is not the right person for the job— and is not worth your money. NEEDA good seller focuses on features; a great one speaks benefits. The benefits that a device, an app or a software will deliver to the customer. Simple and straightforward — features tell, benefits sell. Many customers don’t even care about the product itself. They don’t want to buy it because it is a cool product or because it is the latest model or anything like that. They just want to use the product to accomplish a certain task or achieve a result. In other words, the piece of technology is not the end but the means to an end. VALUEAnd this works for all products, not just technology. People don’t want to buy a TV for example; they want to have a good experience in their living room with family and friends. People don’t want to buy laptop, they want to improve their business or complete their school work or organise their lives. Benefits clearly answer the customer questions “What’s in it for me?” or “What results will I get that will improve my current situation?” or “Will it make me healthier, wealthier or wiser?” “Will it help me do business with my customers?”, “How will be the experience of using this product?” The benefits of a product gives it value — the financial impact of the purchase compared to the purchase cost. Next time you need to buy a software or a hardware, and you are clobbered with hard-to-comprehend tech features, know that you are being taken for a ride. You are probably being manipulated and you may take home what you didn’t want. The writer is an informatics specialist. samwambugu@gmail.com @samwambugu2  