Tourism Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala is upbeat that infrastructural development at the Coast will help boost tourism. Speaking during celebrations to mark Vipingo Ridge’s 10th anniversary in Kilifi County, the CS said the government is committed to infrastructure because it is facilitating the private sector to grow. ROAD WORKS “We are going on with the project from Garsen to Mokowe-Lamu, which is to be completed in 18 months. Malindi to Tsavo National Park is 110 km and 40 per cent of the road is ready,” he said. Work on an eight-lane road from Changamwe to Mariakani to ease traffic jam is in progress. “We have paid Sh300 million for relocation of squatters at the Malindi Airport to enable its expansion for another one kilometre to allow charter flights and airlines to land there,” the CS said. Mr Balala added that work on Mariakani to Mavueni-Kilifi Road is complete and the Malindi to Bagamoyo Road in Tanzania is ongoing. “We have to do this road that is why you see Mtwapa is clean. I know it is a bit painful but we need to do the painful things for this country to move forward. “We hope this will start and take off to open up Vipingo, Kilifi and the entire Kwale County,” Mr Najib added. DEVELOPMENT The minister said the region was changing due to the increased infrastructural developments and urged the stakeholders in the sector to take advantage of projects to improve hotels and properties. “We know most of the property at the Coast are tired and old but we encourage fresh and new products to come into the market,” said Mr Balala. The CS added that the ministry has its Big Four pillars namely marketing, product development, infrastructure and investment strategies, which will help expand the tourism sector at the Coast. “This is part of the tourism circuit and we are very clear as a ministry on what we want to do. We have appointed a consultant and have come up with a strategy,” said Mr Balala. SGR Mr Balala noted business was booming in Mombasa as a result of the Standard Gauge Railway station at Miritini. He said the Cabinet in September last year approved the extension of the SGR from Mariakani to the new port of Lamu and it will pass through Vipingo. “A new SGR line from Lamu to Witu, Witu to Malindi, Malindi to Kilifi, Kilifi to Mtwapa and Mtwapa to Mariakani has been approved and this key infrastructure will pass right in front of Vipingo Ridge,” he said. PROJECT Vipingo Ridge chairman Alastair Cavenagh welcomed the dualling of the Mombasa-Malindi highway, saying it was long overdue. “This project that has been on the drawing board for several years will finally become a reality if you are familiar to the ongoing clearance of the structures on the road reserves in Mtwapa. “I am sure I don’t need to point out the obvious benefits the two-lane highway outside our gate will bring to the Vipingo development in terms of accessibility, demand and property values,” he added. INVESTMENTS Mr Cavenagh said the planned development of the Rea Vipingo land by Centum Investment is exciting news as the project will make Vipingo a much sought after destination. “While this project may be some years off yet, the benefits of having such significant infrastructure project at our door step should be apparent to everyone,” the chairman said. In October, the CS said, Kenya will hold African hotels investments forum that will help the tourism and hotel sector to grow. He said the government will encourage investment in the Coast region and across the country by international brands. “We are going to build Mama Ngina water front, we have advertised for tenders and in the next few months you will see the changes.” the CS said.  