Education ministry has sent a team to probe Murang’a High School principal after the Nation exposed how parents were forced to pay Sh40,000 to build classes and a swimming pool. The probe began as more parents wrote to the Nation, which first published the story on Friday,  complaining how the school is with-holding their sons’ leaving certificates over the said money. The cash is for a harambee slated for April 6 and Deputy President William Ruto is expected to preside over  the same. According to Murang’a County Director of Education Victoria Mulili, the team visited the school on Friday on a fact finding mission. Ms Mulili said the team will be releasing its findings next week. PARENTS' CONTRIBUTION “The team from Jogoo house spent the better part of Friday at the school to get the truth of the matter and shall make known the findings by next week,” the county director said. Among the issues they are scrutinising is whether the school followed due process before seeking parents’ contribution. Procedure requires that the school writes to the County Education Board to seek approval. The county director’s office is then to forward the proposal to the Education Cabinet Secretary who has the final word. But Ms Mulili told the Nation that she was new in the county and did not know of the agreement between the parents and school. However after the Nation exclusively published the story, more parents have come out confirming that the demands and the threats are real. HOLDING CERTIFICATES A section of parents claim that the principal is with-holding their sons’ leaving certificates over failure to contribute the Sh40,000 last year. “We had conducted a harambee last year and we were instructed by the principal to pay Sh40,000 which I cannot afford. My son’s leaving certificate is stuck at the school and I don’t know what to do since it will be a requirement for him to join university,” said a parent who sought anonymity so as not to jeopardise her son’s future. HONOUR PLEDGES The school Principal Alex Kuria did not answer the Nation’s inquiry on the probe.  But last week, he allegedly said parents will have to honour the pledges to facilitate development of the school which has been classified as a national school. He is said to have sent a text summoning parents who had not contributed. When the story was published, he is said to have sent another text telling parents the contribution was voluntary.   County Director of Education Victoria Mulili said she was not aware of the charges.