Saboti MP Caleb Amisi has told Deputy President William Ruto to stop President Uhuru Kenyatta succession politics and instead focus on delivering the promises that the Jubilee administration made to Kenyans ahead of the August 2017 elections. Mr Amisi, who spoke at Parliament Buildings on Monday, accused Mr Ruto of engaging in early campaigns for 2022 at a time when the country is facing a myriad of challenges. PROMISES “He is already out there making promises to Kenyans even before he delivers those made last year,” Mr Amisi said. “We need to have honest leaders to accomplish the aspirations of Kenyans.” Among the challenges the Jubilee administration promised to deal with if elected, include food insecurity, corruption and youth unemployment among others. However, five months down the line since President Kenyatta was re-elected, much is yet to be done. The ever growing public debt and the ongoing flooding in various parts of the country are the most dire challenges that the government needs to address, according to Mr Amisi. The 2022 succession politics has been at the centre of Mr Ruto’s tours to various parts of the country following President Kenyatta and Nasa leader Raila Odinga’s announcement that they will work together. During his three-day tour at the Coast, which ended on Sunday, Mr Ruto appeared to endear himself to the region that has traditionally supported Mr Odinga. On Monday, Mr Amisi asked the DP to stop what he termed as premature campaigns for 2022 General Election. “Ruto must stop the campaigns and focus his energy in supporting reconciliation started by President Uhuru and Mr Odinga,” he said adding; “we need the country to heal first but this cannot happen under such political environment.” Amisi said engaging in politics at the moment would ruin the intention of the political truce by the two protagonists in the August elections. The MP asked political leaders to focus on addressing the rate of unemployment among the youth and the issues of marginalization, which has dominated the political discussions in the country.   They say he is the best candidate.