The national ladies team Harambee Starlets arrived in Zambia on Thursday ahead of their international friendly match with the She Chipolopolo on Sunday in Ndola. The match is part of Starlets’ preparations ahead of their to play Uganda in the Africa Women Cup of Nations first round qualifier against Uganda on April 8 with the return leg four days later in Kampala. Under the tutelage of coach David Ouma and Richard Kanyi, a squad of 20 players will intend to gauge their readiness against Albert Kachinga’s She Chipolopolo who play Tanzania in the qualifying round. She Chipolopolo are ranked 10th on the continent and 96th in the Fifa women’s global rankings while Starlets are 14th and 108th respectively. Thika Queens’ goal poacher Mwanahalima Adam and former Tartar Girls forward Neddy Atieno will lead the attack in the absence of Esse Akida. Meanwhile, the Kenya Under-23 play the first of their two friendly matches against Uzbekistan U23 on Friday evening. The match will be staged at the Barkamol Aviod Stadium in Andijan City and will kick-off 6pm Kenyan time. The second match will be held at the same venue on Monday. Coach Francis Kimanzi will likely start Ulinzi Stars custodian Timothy Odhiambo in goal. Vihiga United’s Bernard Ochieng’ will partner USA-bound Joseph Okumu in defence with AFC Leopards’ Mike Kibwage and David Owino playing as right and left back respectively. Kariobangi Sharks’ midfielder Sven Yidah and Teddy Osok could partner in midfield with Nicholas Kipkirui of Zoo Kericho and KCB’s Chris Onyango leading the attack. STARLETS SQUAD Goalkeepers: Pauline Atieno, Maureen Shimuli Defenders: Dorcas Shikobe, Wendy Achieng, Carolyne Anyango, Lilian Adera, Vivian Nasaka, Esther Nadika, Pauline Musungu, Wincate Kaari Midfielders: Cheris Avilia, Dorris Anyango, Sheryl Angachi, Caroline Kiget, Corazone Aquino Strikers: Mwanahalima Adam, Mercy Achieng, Phoebe Owiti, Neddy Atieno, Cynthia Shilwatso KENYA U23 SQUAD Goalkeepers: Timothy Odhiambo (Ulinzi Stars), Job Ochieng (Mathare United) Defenders: Mike Kibwage (AFC Leopards), Joseph Okumu (Unattached), Amai Atariza (Bandari), Benard Ochieng (Vihiga United), Bolton Omwenga (Kariobangi Sharks), David Owino (Mathare United) Midfielders: Teddy Osok (Sofapaka), Sven Yidah (Kariobangi Sharks), Siraj Mohammed (Bandari), Chrispinus Onyango (KCB), Abdalla Ahmed (Mathare United), Ibrahim Shambi (Ulinzi Stars), James Mazembe (Kariobangi Sharks), Henry Juma (Kariobangi Sharks), Cliff Kasuti (Ulinzi Stars) Strikers: Pistone Mutamba (Wazito), Jafari Owiti (AFC Leopards), Brian Yator (KCB), Nicholas Kipkirui (Zoo Kericho), Daniel Okoth Otieno (Sony Sugar)  