Quality education has been the clarion call lately. But what happens when a university and the regulator clash? In Busia, a university campus was set up near a rural market called Soko Mjinga. It was a branch of Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology (MMUST), established as part of its satellite campuses. CUE Here, more than 300 students are enrolled in various programmes for certificate, diploma and degree qualifications. Students were studying commerce, education, biomedical sciences, criminology, climate change and education planning; and paying fees ranging from Sh56,000 to Sh450,000 depending on the programme. The County Government of Busia even signed an MoU with the institution on further expansion, which involved Sh20 million for acquiring more land in exchange for support in training county officials. From February 2015, things seemed to work well. That was until the regulator of higher education said there was a problem with the campus.   SHUT DOWN Last week, the Commission for University Education (CUE) shut down the campus as it intensified its crackdown on institutions that have not complied with regulations. Officially known as the Busia Open, Distance and e-Learning Centre (ODel), affected students now look for answers amid fear of their studies being disrupted. Those who spoke to the Nation said they do not support mediocre education, but appealed to the regulator and county leadership to ensure their studies are not disrupted. The CUE ordered the university to transfer all current students to the main campus in Kakamega and stop admitting any new students at the Busia facility. The university’s management, led by Vice Chancellor Fred Otieno, was to meet and discuss how to handle this directive. “They have given us a notice to close but they have not told us to leave. The management of the university will sit and deliberate on how to comply with the conditions,” said a senior varsity official who requested not to be named because the university was yet to make a decision. STANDARDS The CUE, in its investigations, found that the facilities on the campus were insufficient and students were learning in congested areas. “They have their standards of what a campus should be. But these standards came later [after the campus was approved]. If the rules are set later and higher, that is another story,” the official added. The official said that a proposal to have lectures shifted to the Agricultural Training Centre (ATC), a stone’s throw away, was met with resistance from county officials. The official said the campus was doing remarkably well and had already attracted mature entry students, including 20 police officers, prison wardens, MCAs, bankers and county workers. WELFARE Students have already been informed of the transfer process ahead of a possible relocation to the main campus in Kakamega. Concepta Omondi, a student, said some of the requirements by the regulator could have been met gradually instead of disrupting the lives of more than 300 students, most of who attend the convenient evening classes. “The reasons as to why they closed the campuses is because it doesn’t meet at least a 50-acre piece of land requirement, adequate infrastructure, a playground and a ramp for people living with disability. We believe these are aspects that can be addressed with concerted efforts from stakeholders. “We are living in fear that maybe our education may have hit a brick wall since we are not able to pursue our studies at this institution anymore yet some students have only one semester to complete their studies,” she said. Closing the campus would affect not just the students but also the county, both socially and economically, she added. More students interviewed on the matter shared the same sentiments, saying the commission does not care about their welfare.   CONVENIENCE Fourth-year education student Danson Kamau said he chose the institution because of its proximity to his home and place of work. “Due to financial constraints, I fear I may not be able to continue with my studies at the main campus in Kakamega. “CUE should consider the inconvenience that follows their action, especially involving students in their final phase of studies,” a distraught Danson lamented. Many students said they do not want to be transferred because it would be inconvenient to study in Kakamega. Demtula Awino, who is pursuing a certificate in social work, said she is a resident of Busia and moving to Kakamega would be costly. “This means I will have to factor in accommodation and welfare fees at an extra cost. Any possible transfer means my dream is crushed as my parents are not in a position to finance me from Kakamega,” she added, expressing fear that her pursuit for higher education would be disrupted. Zilpah Bett said the closure of the campus will affect delivery of services. “Going by student population and learning interests we could still manage through with ease. For instance these are civil servants who wish to squeeze some few hours [to study] then report back to work. “These satellite campuses have cut cost by almost 70 per cent saving parents that extra coin. Busia is still lagging behind in matters university education and the county and national governments should intervene,” she said. Parents also expressed frustration at the news of a possible closure.  