After reading through the 2016/17 audited financial report of Kenya Power, I am convinced that there is no basis for claiming that our electricity bills are inflated. This is what the Auditor General  Edward Ouko wrote: “I checked whether the tariffs are appropriately set up in the relevant systems, that consumption is correctly captured and that the system computations are accurate”. After all those checks, he did not detect any errors in those systems. Nevertheless, the question that needs an answer is why the power bill doubles when the levies, adjustments and taxes are added. There are simply too many statutory (busy-) bodies taking money from power consumers yet there is no tangible benefit accruing from them. To be fair to these (busy-) bodies, however, anyone interested in knowing what they are doing with all this money can simply visit their respective offices and demand to see the audited annual reports. Still, there is one amount in the bill that Kenya Power must explain. This is the so-called “Fixed Charge”. The Sh150 must be paid whether or not the customer consumed any electricity. I have seen a few people asking about it but the answers have not been forthcoming. Long ago, I used to think that this money was meant to meet the cost of reading the meter. Whether you have consumed power or not, the meter reader has to visit your house to take the reading. I was satisfied with that, even though the amount appeared to be too high. Then the power company introduced the pre-paid meters. These do not require to be read. However, the fixed charge is still collected from them as well. Thus, my earlier reasoning no longer holds water! Luckily, I came across the financial statement of the Kenya Electricity Generating Company (KenGen), and I think I found the answer. According to this report, the company’s revenue in the 2016/17 period was Sh29.4 billion. This came from two main sources: “Capacity Charges” (Sh21.7 billion) and “Energy Charges” (Sh7.3 billion). The capacity charge is the amount paid to KenGen for connecting their generators to the power lines – whether Kenya Power is drawing electricity or not. It’s like when you hire a car: you pay for it whether you drive it or not, don’t you? The capacity charge is about 75 per cent of KenGen’s revenue! I suspect that this is the reason consumers are also charged a fixed amount – whether you switch on your power or not. As we wait for Kenya Power to verify if this is so, let me highlight an inconsistency that I noticed. Kenya Power’s audited report says that it paid KenGen Sh33.99 billion for “basic power purchase cost” in the year ending on June 30, 2017. However, KenGen says it received only Sh29.0 billion from Kenya Power during the same period. The question then is: where did the extra Sh4.99 billion go?  www.figures.co.ke Twitter: @mungaikihanya   You are wealthy if you own highly valuable property and you are rich if you have a high income.