An association of matatu operators in Nairobi has opposed the introduction of cheap NYS buses in the city. They said they want a level playing field created. PROTEST Association of Matatu Operators in Nairobi Central Business District Chairman Jimal Ibrahim faulted the move, saying that the government cannot expect operators to charge the same or lower fares as the NYS buses yet they are being levied different charges to operate. He said the government should have directed the resources in maintaining impassable roads such as in Juja, Mwiki, Komarock and other areas instead of investing in “a project set for a total failure”. “They are trying to create a civil war between the government and the matatu industry. Somebody cannot just wake up and introduce buses as if there was nothing going on before. “We do not want to react but we can act and we are planning to act if our grievances are not listened to,” said Mr Ibrahim on Sunday in Nairobi. NYS BUSES This comes hot on the heels of the introduction of 27 buses by the National Youth Service (NYS) on Friday set to charge a flat rate of Sh50, later dropped to Sh20, no matter the distance travelled to help alleviate the commuter crisis in Nairobi and cushion residents from the high fares charged by public commuter vehicles. NYS Director-General Richard Ndubai said the buses would ply Nairobi routes including Kibera, Githurai, Mwiki, Mukuru kwa Njenga, Dandora, Kariobangi and Kawangware with more vehicles set to be introduced later. Mr Ibrahim said the NYS buses are an unfair competition. “We are not against any competition but we should have a level playing field in the industry. NYS buses is not fair competition to us. “They pay only Sh43 per litre for fuel, we pay Sh102. They do not pay for insurance, TLB, RSL from NTSA, their drivers have no PSV badges, and are not making loans repayments,” said Mr Ibrahim. CHARGES He said that if the government abolishes the many charges for PSVs, then they are ready to lower their charges. “When we charge Sh60 to South C or Kawangware, it is because we pay many charges but if they can remove all the charges then I am assuring residents that we can even lower the fare to Sh10,” Mr Ibrahim said. He urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene before many youth are rendered jobless. The Association’s spokesperson John Methu faulted Transport CS James Macharia and his principal secretary for their silence. “This is a scandal in the making by cartels planning to steal from the government in the name of helping Nairobians. We pay millions to buy our buses yet someone comes to tell you that you [should] charge Sh10. If we do not get a response between one or two days then we will give our ultimatum,” said Mr Methu. The move has also been criticised by both Matatu Owners Association chair Simon Kimutai and Matatu Welfare Association chairman Dickson Mbugua terming it a deliberate act by the government to frustrate operators in the industry.  