If history alone was to be used as the yardstick ahead of Wednesday’s Caf Champions League first round tie between Gor Mahia and Tunisian giants Esperance in Machakos, then the Kenyan champions would stand no chance. The last time the two sides clashed, Gor were hammered 8-2 on aggregate by Esperance, making today’s meeting a tricky one for both sides. Interestingly, Gor have never beaten Esperance, but pipped the Tunisians to the Africa Club Winners Cup (now known as Caf Confederation Cup) on away goals in 1987. With a place in the prestigious Champions League group stages at stake, both teams are leaving nothing to chance going into the first leg tie set to kick off at 3pm at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos. Esperance, ranked second in the Africa Football Club rankings behind Al Ahly of Egypt, have won different African competitions within the last 30 years, including the Champions League in 1994 and 2011. The last time Gor went past the preliminaries was in 1992, when they were eliminated by Al Hilal in the quarter-finals. K’Ogalo, who dispatched Equatoguinean minnows Leones Vegetarianos 3-1 on aggregate in the previous round, have failed to match the successes of the 1987 team in the last 30 years. Club legend Bobby Ogolla, who was the assistant coach when the two sides met in 2014, told Nation Sport yesterday that he is “scared” for the Kenyan team. “Sincerely speaking, they (Gor) should expect a very tough match. North African sides have really developed their game and are very crafty fellows. Another disadvantage is that Gor Mahia have to start at home. That means if they don’t do well here, they are done,” Ogolla offered. “I don’t want to commit myself, and I also don’t want to underrate our team. Since 2014, Gor have transformed and truly they can stage a surprise, but I am scared.” Austin Oduor, who was part of the glorious 1987 team that lifted the continental crown, is however more optimistic: “Of course they can win." “They have been winning games here in Kenya so why not? It is also in the rainy season, and that is disadvantageous to the visitors. They should find ways of using this, and their home advantage to win.” The 21-man Esperance squad arrived in the country early Monday morning, and proceeded straight to Machakos. They had a feel of the pitch Tuesday afternoon. An advance party consisting club officials and media personnel has, however, been in the country for the last two weeks to monitor and assess K’Ogalo’s strengths and weaknesses. The Sousse-based team is currently under the tutelage of 61-year-old Tunisian Khaled Ben Yahia, who took up the job in January 2 from Faouza Benzarti. Yahia is on his third stint as Esperance coach, and was also a former central defender at the club before moving into coaching. He will however have to do without the services of inured duo Ali Machani and Montassar Talbi. Gor coach Dylan Kerr will be without Ivorian striker Ephrem Guikan who is recovering from concussion after colliding with Tusker goalkeeper Duncan Ochieng last week, as well as defender Wellington Ochieng who suffered an ankle injury at the weekend. Right back Karim Nizigiyimana remains the only long-term absentee. ONGUSO TO START Ochieng’s absence means Wesley Onguso might start at left back with Ugandan utility man Godfrey Walusimbi shifting to right back. Skipper Harun Shakava will partner Joash Onyango in central defence while veteran striker Meddie Kagere is set to lead the attack. “I know what is on their (Gor’s) mind is revenge for what happened in 2014. We cannot underestimate the team because they have done some massive modifications to their squad in the last four years, and are much stronger,” Yahia said. “Having beaten us in 1987 also gives them some confidence so we shall tread carefully and hope for victory.” Gor Mahia: Founded: 1968 Continental titles: One — 1987 Local titles: 16 Nickname: K’Ogalo Coach: Dylan Kerr Gor Squad: Boniface Oluoch, Shaban Odhoji, Walusimbi Geoffrey, Wellington Ochieng’, Harun Shakava, Joash Onyango, Charles Momanyi, Wesley Onguso, Ernest Wendo, Philemon Otieno, Humphrey Mieno, Boniface Omondi, Francis Kahata, Bernard Ondiek, Sammy Onyango, George Odhiambo, Maddie Kagere, Ephrem Guikan, Kevin Omondi Esperance: Founded: 1919 Continental titles: Three — 1994, 1998, 2011 Local titles: 27 Nickname: Mkachkha Coach: Khaled Ben Yahia Esperance squad: Moez Ben Cherifia, Ali Jemal, Wassim Karoui, Sameh Derbali, Chamseddine Dhaouadi, Khalil Chemmam, Mohamed Amine Meskini, Houcine Rabii, Aymen Ben Mohamed, Fousseny Coulibaly, Franck Kom, Mohamed Ali Moncer, Saad Beguir, Anis Ben Hatira, Maher Besseghaier, Anis Badri, Youssef Belaili, Taha Yassine Khenissi, Haythem Jouini (pictured above), Adem Rejaibi and Bilel Mejri  