Combative lawyer Miguna Miguna spent a third day in detention at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi on Wednesday as his legal team returned to court to force the State to comply with earlier orders for his release. The self-declared National Resistance Movement (NRM) ‘general’, who returned to Kenya on Monday but declined to have his Canadian passport stamped, says he is living a dog’s life at the airport. On Wednesday, security remained tight at Terminal 2 with General Service Unit (GSU) officers keeping vigil in shifts. There was, however, minimal activity, as none of his lawyers or supporters turned up as was expected. DEPORTEDDr Miguna has been denied entry into the country despite two court orders allowing his return after he was deported to Canada for his role in the “swearing-in” of National Super Alliance leader Raila Odinga on January 30. Mr Odinga unsuccessfully tried to intervene to have Mr Miguna allowed into the country on Monday night. The fiery lawyer on Wednesday accused police of locking him “inside a tiny and filthy toilet without access to basic hygiene and necessities of life”. Journalists could not verify his complaints as they, too, were barred by police from accessing Dr Miguna at the airport. “The respondents haven’t provided me with food, water and medical attention, in addition to not according me my right to counsel,” he said in a statement. He described the room near Terminal 2 as uninhabitable. “I have no access to a bathroom and I have not taken a shower since Sunday, March 25. The toilet where I am being held has no shower or bathtub,” he said. CS MATIANG'IDr Miguna condemned his continued detention, referring to those who sanctioned it as “despots”. Justice Roselyn Aburili on Tuesday ordered Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i, Immigration Principal Secretary Gordon Kihalang’wa and Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet to release the lawyer and present him in court today morning. But they did not. Other officials targeted by the court order are Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti, head of the Flying Squad Said Kiprotich, head of police at JKIA and the Attorney-General. “Despite the court order, and as they have done consistently before, the respondents have not released me,” Dr Miguna said. “They have locked out my lawyers from accessing me since my illegal detention last evening. They also unsuccessfully attempted to evade service of the court order.” ASSAULTHe accused the government and security officers of attacking and terrorising him at the airport. “In full view of the media, and therefore the entire world, the respondents physically assaulted me, tore my clothes, refused to allow me to re-enter Kenya. “They abducted me and attempted to force me to fly out to Dubai without any documentation whatsoever.” He said he would continue resisting the government’s efforts to have him enter Kenya as a “foreigner on a conditional visa”. VISITATIONHis lawyers, family members and doctor have all been denied access to him, Dr Miguna said, adding that only a consul from the Canadian High Commission has so far visited him. But the diplomat was reportedly denied clearance and asked to return at 2.30pm when Dr Miguna was scheduled to be in court. A representative of the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights, whom Justice Chacha Mwita had ordered to supervise compliance by State officers, faced similar treatment. “I urge Kenyans to strongly resist Jubilee regime’s increasing authoritarianism and join forces with the National Resistance Movement against what is clearly a desperate attempt to establish a party dictatorial state,” Dr Miguna said.   Barrister claims he is leading a dog's life.