The High Court has temporarily suspended the swearing-in and gazetting of three nominees who were appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta to join the Judicial Service Commission. Justice John Mativo issued the order on Friday. SUIT Katiba Institute, a lobby group, had moved to court on Thursday to invalidate the nomination, vetting and approval of Prof Olive Mugenda, Mr Felix Koskei and Mr Patrick Gichohi. Prof Mugenda is a former Kenyatta University vice-chancellor, Mr Koskei served as the Agriculture Cabinet secretary during Jubilee’s first term, while Mr Gichohi was a clerk at the National Assembly. The judge directed that the temporary order to remain in effect for 14 days and that sued parties be issued with copies of the case documents before March 20 when he is set to issue further directions. Katiba Institute sued the Public Service Commission, the National Assembly and the Attorney-General. The Universities Academic Staff Union (Uasu) Secretary-General, George Lukoye, is listed as an interested party. TRANSPARENCY According to the lobby, there was no evidence to indicate that the nominations were subject to openness, diversity or fair competition. Through lawyer Waikwa Wanyoike, the lobby group faulted PSC of failing to post advertisements for vacancies of the three positions. In the case documents, it claimed that it wrote to PSC last month to question circumstances surrounding the nominations but it did not get any response. The JSC Act allows the President to make two appointments of public representatives in the top decision-making organ of the Judiciary, which, among other things, picks the Chief Justice, Deputy Chief Justice and Supreme Court judges. The JSC has 11 members including the CJ, one judge each drawn from the Supreme Court, Court of Appeal and High Court. Other members include a magistrate, the Attorney-General, two Law Society of Kenya members, a PSC representative, two public representatives and the Judiciary’s Chief Registrar. LAW Katiba Institute further argued that their nomination calls to question the constitutionality of section 15 of the JSC Act, which they claimed does not provide a criteria in which the process for appointing a representative of the public is provided. “Members of the public are not told in advance of their applications if or not they qualify for the nomination. “As a result the section is devoid of national values, principles of good governance, integrity, transparency and accountability, besides fair administrative action,” said Mr Wanyoike. The lobby argued that since there is no criteria for appointment under the disputed section of the law, the vetting process and approval by the National Assembly is an empty ritual devoid of constitutional meaning hence, invalid. President Uhuru Kenyatta nominated the three on February 13 and forwarded their names to the National Assembly on the same day. VETTING They appeared before the Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs for vetting on February 21 and were approved by February 27. During the vetting, Prof Mugenda was asked to respond to queries on her retirement package as well as allegations that she refused to release the institution’s property, including house, official vehicle and office. But she told the panel that her send-off package was approved by the university council for her 15 years of service and that she moved from the said residence. Mr Koskei was asked to respond to corruption allegations that led to his removal in 2015. He said he was cleared by the anti-graft commission within a month of his sacking as there was no case linking him to the claims. The lobby wants the nomination, vetting, approval and appointment of the three permanently declared unconstitutional or an order issued directing that Section 15 of the JSC Act be subjected to openness, diversity and fair competition.  