A top educationist in the country has criticised the conversion of technical institutions into universities. Prof George Magoha, the Chairman of the Kenya National Examinations Council (KNEC), on Friday said Kenya cold end up with an insufficient number of technicians necessary to support key sectors of the economy. DEGREES "It was wrong to convert major technical institutions into universities as they equally play a major role in our society. "Not everybody should be a (degree) graduate. It's absolute nonsense and stupid,” Prof Magoha said. He said the "craze for going for degrees" is destroying the country. Prof Magoha spoke during the 8th graduation of the Kisumu National Polytechnic on Friday, where he was the chief guest. COLLEGES Some technical colleges have been turned into universities. Examples include the then Kenya Polytechnic which was turned into Technical University of Kenya; and the Mombasa Polytechnic which was turned into Technical University of Mombasa. These conversions were influenced by the desire to provide university education to far-flung places. But the official criticised the way the colleges eventually killed off technical courses offered at certificate level. Prof Magoha said technical institutions can focus on working towards producing its own degree graduates without the institutions being converted into universities. EQUIPMENT The Director of Technical and Vocational Education Training (TVET), Dr Meshack Opwora, said they were working on ensuring each of the 290 constituencies has a technical college. "We shall equip them with state-of-the-art equipment to help in trainings, practical and production works," Dr Opwora said. He said plans are afoot to ensure all jobless youth are trained so they become productive. "We have already advertised for this and the deadline for absorption is March 28. We want to equip them with necessary skills to be able to earn a living," he added. GRADUATES During the ceremony, 2,124 graduated with diplomas and certificates. The institution’s principal, Ms Joyce Nyanjom, said the ceremony had the highest number of graduates in the institution’s history. She said the polytechnic has more than 5,000 students and is seeking to boost its enrolment. Dr Opwora said they will lobby the Higher Education Loans Board to increase the amounts of loans granted to needy students.  