The palpable drama over Miguna Miguna, deported twice in as many months and now holed up at the Dubai International Airport, demands that we interrogate the ethnical basis of the Kenyan society and its institutions. Like others in my generation that entered universities in the 1970s and 1980s, I was weaned on facts. “Now, what I want is facts. Teach these boys and girls nothing but facts. Facts alone are wanted in life … You can only form the minds of reasoning animals upon facts; nothing else will ever be of any service to them.” As I study the unfolding theatrics in the public sphere, corridors of power and judiciary over the plight of the Kenyan-Canadian lawyer and political activist, these eternal words of Charles Dickens in the Hard Times ring even louder in my mind. TRUTHThe eminent historian, Professor Bethwell Allan Ogot, introduced us to the works of the British historian, Edward Hallett Carr (1892-1982), particularly his essay: “The Historian and His Facts,” which prepared us to navigate between the world of immutable facts and that of judgements, half-truths and idiosyncrasies. Ultimately, we came to believe that our life-mission is to search for, and defend, the truth even at the edge of the sword. Logically, to us truth became God! Expectedly, many in my generation are having a hard time kowtowing to post-truth politics — also called post-factual politics or post-reality politics. Simply put, post-factual politics that now soaks our judiciary, civil society and media, denotes “a political culture in which debate is framed largely by appeals to emotion disconnected from the details of policy, and by the repeated assertion of talking points to which factual rebuttals are ignored”. CITIZENSHIPIn a public and palpable way, the Miguna Miguna hullabaloo in the Kenyan public sphere, courts, and civil society has become a poster child of the post-factual politics. Conceptually, the post-truth politics around Miguna’s citizenship and political activism is riding on the twin travesties of an incipient judicial dictatorship and civil society extremism now threatening to derail Africa’s emerging democracies. However, beyond the post-factual politics, the facts around Miguna Miguna are crystal clear: • Miguna is lawfully a Canadian citizen of Kenyan descent. Indeed, as of March 30, 2018, his updated Wikipedia page describes him as “a Canadian author and columnist” but born in Kisumu District, Kenya, in 1963. • In 1986, after a short stint in detention for political activism as a student leader at the University of Nairobi, Miguna fled the country via Tanzania (with a brief stay in Swaziland) and secured political asylum in Canada. He never had a Kenyan passport. • In 1988, he became a Canadian citizen and consequently ceased being a Kenyan citizen. • In 2007, Miguna returned and featured prominently as an ODM activist, becoming adviser to Prime Minister Raila Odinga in the Grand Coalition Government (2008-2013) headed by President Mwai Kibaki. • In 2008, Gerald Otieno Kajwang (1959–2014), as Minister for Immigration (ODM), ordered the immigration officer in Kisumu to issue Miguna with a Kenyan passport despite his Canadian passport. He also illicitly acquired a Kenyan identity card. Between 2008 and August 2010, Miguna travelled internationally using the Kenyan and Canadian passports as he found convenient. • In 2010, activists from the Party of National Unity (PNU) side of the coalition accused Miguna of holding both Canadian and Kenyan passports criminally and pushed for Miguna’s deportation because the law did not allow dual citizenship at the time. Miguna argued that he was a Kenyan citizen by birth and that he had never renounced his citizenship. • On August 27, 2010, the new constitution legalised dual citizenship. TREASON CHARGES While in a tour of the United Kingdom in 2011, Minister Kajwang cleared the air on the Miguna citizenship issue. He said: “If you renounced your Kenyan citizenship to acquire citizenship of another country, you need to reapply your citizenship according to the law we have, you will be given forms to fill [in] and there’s a place for the Minister (of Immigration) to sign because it is like acquiring citizenship afresh.” Between August 27, 2010 and March 31, 2018, 2,571 Kenyans had re-applied and regained their citizenship, now as dual citizens. But Miguna is not one of them. These facts on illegalities, improprieties and errors would not have become public were it not for two reasons. First, having developed cold feet and failed to put Miguna to trial on treason charges for his part in the “swearing-in” of Raila Odinga as “people’s president” on January 30, 2018, the government deported him back to Canada on February 6, 2018. VISASecond, although the government put in place an elaborate plan to ensure Miguna’s smooth re-entry and regularisation of his Kenyan citizenship to cement the handshake between Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga on March 9, 2018, Miguna scuttled the plan. While the government committed to provide Miguna with an entry visa upon his arrival on March 26, 2018, he adamantly refused to hand over the Canadian passport, which he had used to travel from Toronto to Kenya via Dubai, to facilitate the processing of the visa. What irked Miguna was that the Immigration department perforated his 2008 passport, procedurally stating that “it was a Kenyan document in the wrong hands” because it had been illicitly acquired. PASSPORTIn the light of this, while the Immigration department’s officials showed up at JKIA when Miguna landed with the requisite application forms to enable him apply for and regularise his citizenship status in line with Otieno Kajwang’s ministerial directive, he tore up the papers. The International Air Transport Association (IATA), which supports aviation with global standards for airline safety, security, efficiency and sustainability, requires that travellers present the documents they travelled on at the point of entry to any member country. In a last-minute attempt to prevent Miguna from being deported back to Dubai as “an undocumented person”, Raila requested Miguna to hand him his Canadian passport for safe processing. He refused, souring an already frosty relationship with Raila. He also rejected any assistance by Canadian officials. Jubilee blames business moguls, civil society activists, and “external forces” hell-bent on wrecking the Raila-Uhuru relationship. The winner is Miguna, the self-declared “NRM General” and the man after Odinga’s mantle in Luo politics. Professor Peter Kagwanja is a former Government Adviser and Chief Executive of the Africa Policy Institute.  