Embakasi Garrison Secondary School’s Isaac Ochieng might have missed out on the qualifying for the National Games, but his spirit is certainly unbowed. Ochieng settled for fifth spot out of eight in the 200m boys’ final during the Nairobi Region Secondary School Term One Games that ended at Nairobi School over the weekend. His time of 24.67 seconds was a school best and considering it was his fast time in the race Ochieng was excited despite missing out on a national spot. The top two in the race will represent Nairobi Region at next month’s national showpiece in Embu County. “I am quite satisfied with my performance and the experience gained at that level. It was my first time venturing in the sprints and it proved to a good challenge,” Ochieng told Nation Sport. He also took part in the Long Jump where he was also finished a respectable fourth out of eight to the delight of his coach and school teacher Atsuma Orina. The Form- four student is not quite done as he is looking forward to the football competition which will feature in Term Two calendar. “Football is actually my first love and we are aiming to atleast go to the nationals this time and make the school proud,” he added. According to Orina, Ochieng was also expected to play in the basketball team but the clash in timings meant he had to forego one. “He is a multitalented chap who easily juggles Academics and Sports which is not very common among students,” Orina added. Ochieng had topped the charts in the sub-county games as he easily sealed his place in the regional games. Elsewhere, the Nairobi Region Games witnessed a couple of surprises with Dagoretti proving to be the new city basketball kings after their emphatic 58-51 win over champions Upper Hill. Moi Girls’ reign in hockey was also brought to a halt as they lost 1-0 to Mount Laverna. Upper Hill reclaimed the boys’ hockey title, while New Jogoo Road Girls and Lenana School won the girls’ and boys’ handball title respectively. Upper Hill would also retain the rugby 15s title after crushing Lenana School 43-6 in the final. Winners of the various displines will represent the region at the national games due April 2 to 9.  