Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki has survived impeachment over Kenyatta National Hospital saga and claims of abuse of office. Mandera North MP Bashir Abdullahi, who sponsored the motion, on Thursday said he had withdrawn it. DUALE The House was set to discuss the motion on Tuesday next week but Deputy President William Ruto directed National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale to have it dropped. Mr Abdullahi, who announced withdrawal of the motion alongside Mr Duale, said the decision was made after consultation with President Kenyatta and Mr Ruto. “This morning, we had a meeting with the party leadership and resolved that this matter be addressed internally using the Jubilee Party structures,” Mr Abdullahi said. However, by the time the MP was making his announcement, it emerged from the office of the clerk that Mr Abdullahi was yet to formally write to the speaker concerning his intentions. The MP had accused the Ms Kariuki of gross misconduct and abuse of office. Mr Duale said the accusations against the CS were not serious and will be addressed at the Cabinet level. “We have a strong working relationship with the executive and we believe that this matter can be dealt with at other levels,” Mr Duale said. GROUNDS “At the moment, we have serious issues to deal with— including budget, food security and devolution among others.” Belgut MP Nelson Koech, who was to be the seconder of the motion, also attended the meeting with the deputy president on Thursday. On Wednesday, Mr Abdullahi had said the process to compel President Kenyatta to fire Ms Kariuki was complete. The MP had cited gross misconduct and abuse of office as the grounds for the removal of Ms Kariuki, noting that already, 170 MPs have expressed their lack of confidence in her leadership. “Concerned that this Cabinet secretary is arrogant and lacks respect for elected leaders, this House resolves that pursuant to article 152 (6) of the Constitution, recommends the president to dismiss Ms Kariuki for gross misconduct and abuse of office,” read the motion. Ms Kariuki had also been accused of arbitrarily suspending the CEO of Kenyatta National Hospital Lily Koros after surgery was done on the wrong patient. “She has used her office to deny other qualified Kenyans the chance to be the CEO of the hospital by ordering the board to re-submit another list,” Mr Abdullahi had said in the motion.   Mandera North MP Bashir Abdullahi says process to compel President to fire Ms Kariuki is complete.