Court activities in Kisumu were on Tuesday morning halted for about two hours as judges, lawyers and Judiciary staff paid tribute to High Court Judge Joseph Louis Onguto. Led by Kisumu Presiding Judge Justice David Majanja, they thronged one of the High Court rooms for a memorial session. Justice Onguto died two weeks ago in a Nairobi gym. Judges present included Justices Majanja, Tripsisa Cherere, Esther Maina, Environment and Lands Court judge Stephen Kibunja and his counterpart for Employment and Labor Relations Court Nduma Nderi. Also in attendance was Mrs Consolata Onguto, the widow of Justice Onguto. Justice Onguto was eulogised as a devoted and exemplary civil servant who went out of his way in public service and illustrated a profound legal understanding and a lover of fairness and equity. Justice Majanja described the late Onguto as a personal friend whom he could share with matters that went beyond the corridors of justice. “We could share an array of issues out of work including politics with him because he was a close friend of mine,” said the Presiding Judge. He disclosed that he had a chat with Judge Onguto on a judgement the late judge had delivered the previous day moments before his death. He is remembered as brave and courageous while delivering judgements. This, Justice Majanja said, was illustrated by his desire to see the two thirds gender rule entrenched in the country. “Justice Onguto is on record to have found that President Uhuru Kenyatta had breached the constitution when he nominated and maintained Cabinet Sectaries whose composition was not reflective of the two thirds gender rule,” stated Majanja. He revealed that the judge had made rulings that were above reproach in dozens of commercial cases singling out the embattled Nakumatt insolvency case. During one of his rulings, Justice Onguto faulted the National Assembly for what he termed as violation of the constitution when it approved the list CS nominees who did not meet the stipulated gender threshold. “It is sad that two years down the line, there is a new cabinet that has not adhered to the same,” said Justice Nderi. He added that the late judge helped in clearing cases both at Kisumu and Kakamega High courts. Justice Maina described the late judge Onguto as God-fearing and down-to-earth. He will be buried on Saturday 24 in Dudi village in Yala, Siaya County.  