The National Assembly Committee on Energy has supported the establishment of a Sh200 billion coal plant in Lamu County. Committee chairman David Gikaria said the plant would use advanced technology “which has proved beyond doubt that coal production can be safe”. The plant is to be established at Kwasasi area in Hindi. The project is being undertaken by Amu Power Company, a consortium of Gulf Energy and Centum Investment. Some 975 acres have been set aside for the project, expected to generate 1,050megawatts of electricity upon completion. However, establishment of the plant has been met with strong opposition from residents, local leaders and activists. DAMAGE ENVIRONMENT During a tour of Lamu, the lawmakers told those opposed to the project that it would not damage the environment or their health. Mr Gikaria said the United States, Germany, Israel and South Africa produce coal using safe technology “and that will also be applied here”. “Let’s not be discouraged by misinformation about the project. The government intends to use the most advanced technology to produce coal,” the Nakuru Town East MP said. “The US did not want anything to do with coal production but with technological advancements, it now has a huge plant in California. There is nothing to worry about.” The MP said the law would be followed during the implementation of the project. IMPACT ASSESSMENT “An environmental impact assessment has already been conducted. The National Environment and Management Authority was involved at the initial stages even before the project was approved. It means the plant will be safe,” Mr Gikaria said. Committee vice-chairman Robert Pukose said the plant would help end power shortages at the Coast. The Endebess MP said Kenya produces 2,300MW of electricity mostly by geothermal and hydro power generation, “which is very expensive”. He said the coal plant would boost existing power sources and boost supply. “The plant will produce 1,050MW of electricity to be added to the national grid. If we produce more than 1,000MW, we will have earned Kenya a steady supply of power,” Dr Pukose told the residents. “Regions like the Coast have witnessed power shortages for decades due to inadequate supply. I am confident that the plant once established will help to stabilise power in this region.”   Midway Resources International and local partner set to carry out feasibility study