Christians across the country today joined other faithful worldwide in celebrating Palm Sunday to mark the beginning of the Holy Week. Palm Sunday is held in commemoration of Jesus’ humble and triumphant entry to Jerusalem, as illustrated in the Bible, before he was killed. In Nakuru, the faithful led by Diocese Bishop Maurice Muhatia held processions in the town. They later congregated at Christ the King Church where a special mass was held ahead of Easter festivities. During the processions, the faithful carried palm branches, which signified the welcoming gestures Jesus received on his entry into Jerusalem; symbolising peace and victory. CHARACTERThe walk was also symbolic of a humble manifestation as even those who drive left their vehicles behind to mark the day in its customary style. During the mass, Bishop Muhatia urged the faithful to emulate Jesus through acts of humility and helping the less fortunate in the society. “By taking care of people who lack in the society, we emulate Jesus and fulfil his wishes of having died on the cross for us,” the bishop said. Dressed in red and white to represent the blood of Jesus when he died to redeem the world, the congregation officially began a one week journey of fasting until Easter. “God sacrificed his son for the love of the world, we can also sacrifice what we love this coming week for the love of God,” Bishop Muhatia said. ASH WEDNESDAYAccording to Catholic customs, the palms will be gathered at the church and incinerated to create the ashes that will be used to observe next year’s Ash Wednesday. The faithful are expected to forego some things they love this week as a way of sacrificing for Jesus in return for his sacrifice when he died for the world. The ceremonies were also marked with calls for peace. In Mombasa, Fr Marsallius Okello of Holy Ghost Cathedral asked Kenyans to pray for peace to prevail in the country. “We have started seeing results of the inter-denominational prayers that Kenyans have held since last year’s General Election and we are optimistic that Kenya will attain peace that we have always prayed for,” he said Fr Okello urged Kenyans to give President Uhuru Kenyatta and National Super Alliance leader Raila Odinga time to work on a lasting solution that will create peace in the country. UNITYHe said the golden handshake between the two leaders was a good sign. “The handshake between the two leaders was a sign of political goodwill. I urge all Kenyans to extend a hand of friendship to each other so that we can build a greater Kenya,” he said The religious leader also urged all politicians and religious leaders across the country to preach peace, unity and reconciliation to enable the country stabilise for economic take off. “I believe that if we persistently pray to God, we will overcome this political stalemate and bring peace and prosperity to the country,” he said. Fr Okello led the procession from Star of the Sea High School through Kimathi Street, and Nkrumah Road then back to the church for services. DEMOLITIONIt was not all-celebration in Lodwar though, as Bishop Dominic Kimengich condemned demolition of part of Lodwar Girls School and St Augustine Nursery School, both sponsored by the Catholic Church, saying the children have been exposed to danger. “The road that has been created by the county has separated the two schools exposing nursery school children to accidents, because they must cross the road to access the playing field,” he said. The Bishop said that creation of access roads is vital but the county government could have consulted with the church, community and school administration before the demolitions. Lodwar Girls School head teacher Veronica Ogot said the school got Sh2 million from National Disability Network Grant and Sh1 million from parents for phase one of the ultra-modern dining hall construction that was demolished.  