An armed gang on Tuesday morning commandeered a matatu, attacked passengers and stole their valuables at Lucky Summer estate in Ruaraka, Nairobi. The gang, which was described by witnesses as comprising of young men and women, entered the 33-seater matatu as it was about to leave for the city centre and took vantage positions. BLOOD They shot in the air and immediately started demanding valuables— including mobile phones, money and even eye glasses. The early morning incident happened around 6.30am and saw pedestrians sucked up in the incident as the robbers stabbed anyone who stood in their way as they fled. NTV reporter Steve Juma, who arrived at the scene moments after the attack, said several passengers who were injured were taken to hospital. “I can see blood stains inside the bus, people are traumatised around here,” he said. Separately, police in Mombasa on Tuesday morning shot dead a suspected ring leader of a criminal gang in Kisauni. The notorious Wakali Kwanza criminal leader, identified as Jillo, was shot dead at around 7am in Swalihina area. According to witnesses, Jillo was shot four times by five officers. KISAUNI "He came running as he was being chased by three police officers and was shot before he could get to a nearby alley," said a witness who only identified himself as Ismail. Area elder leader, who asked not to be named for security reasons, said the officers fired four shots. "I saw him lying down here after he had been shot. He has been terrorising residents in the area. Everybody is happy here now that he is gone. He has been a nuisance," he said. Area police chief Sangura Musee said the suspect was shot after he mugged a pedestrian. "He also tried to attack one of the officers as he they trailed him. We have taken the body for identification before his finger prints are forwarded to the registrar of persons," said Mr Musee when he visited the scene. The outlawed criminal gangs have been terrorising residents of Kisauni and the Nyali constituencies. The residents have been living in fear of the dreaded gangs, whose membership is mainly youth aged between 12 to 24 years. Shop owners have been among the most targeted by the gangs.  