The arrogance exhibited by the Executive over the Miguna Miguna saga has expunged any doubt about their contempt for the rule of the law. They violated the law with incredible haughtiness and behaved in a manner so despicable and deplorable that should have earned them instant sacking. But that is not what to expect in this country. Some in government think their word is law and the Judiciary and other institutions are secondary and irrelevant. COURT ORDEROn several occasions this week, the High Court directed that the Government allows Dr Miguna unfettered into the country after his was deported to Canada last month. But Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet and Immigration Principal Secretary Gordon Kihalang’wa flatly defied the court directive. Worse, Dr Miguna was forcefully pushed out again and left to his fate in Dubai. High Court Judge George Odunga described the trio’s behaviour as detestable and warned it was unacceptable for those holding crucial portfolios — in this case security — to behave in the manner they did. Consequently, he declared the officials had violated Article 10 of the Constitution that explicitly and robustly commits leaders to probity. FAIRNESSPut simply, they are unfit to hold public office. Leadership calls for purity; high levels of discipline and morality, which the trio lack. Clearly, this is a very unfortunate situation that must be stopped. We cannot entertain a system where government officials violate the law at will and left to go scot-free while ordinary citizens are punished instantly for minor offences. If this continues, we will reach a stage where everyone will defy laws and disobey court orders and the consequence is anarchy. The public is watching what sanctions will follow for the three officials, because something must be done. It is regrettable that the administration is entering dangerous territory of abetting lawlessness. It is incumbent on President Uhuru Kenyatta to act if he really believes in the rule of the law and the Constitution that he swore to protect. We cannot have a situation where ministers and top officials flout rules and continue to hold office.  