Last weekend, Kenya emerged from the IAAF World Indoor Championship in Birmingham with just one medal, a bronze in men’s 3,000 metres, the country winding up 24th on the medals log. The rather disturbing, if not embarrassing, performance came as Kenya’s two representatives in the International Table Tennis Federation Continental Cup — Sejal Thakkar and Brian Mutua — were bundled out in the preliminary rounds of the tournament at Kasarani. These performances in Birmingham and Kasarani highlight the fact that there’s still a lot of ground to be covered as Kenya prepares to field teams at next month’s Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, Australia. Things haven’t been made any easier with the late release of funds from the government to help teams prepare for the April 4-15 games Down Under. By Monday, the team organising Kenya’s participation in Gold Coast hadn’t received the cash they require to kick-start the teams’ residential training camp. Meaning that the federations that will send athletes to Australia — athletics, badminton, boxing, cycling, shooting, table tennis, swimming, wrestling, weight lifting, triathlon, rugby, bowling, squash and para-lifting — have all been left to their own devices as the clock ticks. The “Team Kenya” residential training camp was due to have officially opened last Friday, but with facilities at both Nyayo National Stadium and Moi International Sports Centre under painfully delayed renovations, teams are having it rough seeking alternative training venues. Due to the non-availability of a central residential training camp, the Australia-bound athletes are now scattered all over the country. TRAINING CAMPS The boxers are in Nakuru, track and field athletes in Nairobi, cyclists in Murang’a, triathletes in Eldoret while the rugby teams are in Karen, etc. Which makes the work of Barnabas Korir, Kenya’s chef de mission to the games, extremely difficult, having to shuttle between these venues to ensure all is in order before he leads the advance party out to Gold Coast next week. This state of affairs once again demonstrates the need for the government to invest in development of sports infrastructure if our sportsmen and women are to continue challenging for medals at global competitions. In this time and age, and given the Kenyan athletics pedigree, we ought to have had an indoor track and field stadium that would come in handy during the rainy season and also help our athletes familiarize with indoor competition pretty early. We lack indoor courts for basketball, volleyball and racquet games, which means our teams cannot compete seriously on the global stage. The long rains are with us, and will seriously affect the teams’ preparations. With the feverish construction of world-class stadiums happening in Addis Ababa and other Ethiopian cities, our arch-rivals will soon be able to produce more world class athletes and hand us a thorough beating on the global stage. Next month’s Commonwealth Games will be particularly important as they will be used by various federations to prepare for the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo. After the 2016 Rio Olympics fiasco, several recommendations were presented with a view to avoiding repeat mistakes. There was a call for the professionalising of the selection panels for major games, and coming up with a “Tokyo 2020 Delivery Team” that would start early preparations for the 2020 Olympics. It was also recommended that action to be taken against those culpable in the misappropriation of Sh88,611,480 at the sports ministry, and for the National Olympic Committee of Kenya to account for the Sh126 million per year they receive from American sportswear company Nike on behalf of athletes. Other recommendations included the creation of an office of a “Sports Ombudsman” to whom athletes and coaches can take their complaints. It’s sad that we keep repeating the same mistakes over and over again, especially in as far as preparations for major championships are concerned. After every other major sporting outing, probe teams are formed and their recommendations conveniently swept under the carpet with those culpable walking away, scot-free. As things stand, the new Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Echesa has his work cut out, starting with the herculean effort of steadying Kenya’s Commonwealth Games ship to ensure that the Rio shortcomings are not replicated in Gold Coast. Success in Gold Coast will be an important stepping stone towards angling for our best ever Olympic outing in Tokyo 2020. I still remain confident that CS Echesa will get us out of the woods.  