The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) is yet to receive official complaints from the Opposition over its plans to review electoral boundaries. Chairman Wafula Chebukati said he only saw the complaints in the media. OFFICIAL Speaking in Kilifi County, Mr Chebukati said: “I have also learnt about the issue from the newspaper and we will respond once there is official communication.” On Tuesday, Nasa said the IEBC could not be trusted to review electoral boundaries. “Given the amendments that Jubilee introduced to the election laws agreed on in the run-up to the 2017 polls, and having presided over elections marred by illegalities and irregularities, the IEBC cannot preside over the review of boundaries expected in 2018,” Nasa said in a statement. The statement followed a meeting of the Nasa summit comprising the four principals of the coalition — Mr Raila Odinga of ODM, Mr Kalonzo Musyoka of Wiper, Mr Musalia Mudavadi of Amani National Congress, and Ford-Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula. Nasa accused the IEBC of bungling the August 8 presidential election. In January, Mr Mudavadi said the IEBC should not be trusted with demarcating electoral boundaries. “We want justice. IEBC is planning to add constituencies but it cannot be trusted to deal with electoral boundaries. Even European Union observers indicated that IEBC cannot be trusted. Mr Mudavadi said the IEBC would likely allocate more constituencies in Jubilee zones than in Nasa zones. "The process can no longer be valid,” he said. MANDATE The boundary review process could be conducted after the population census next year. Mr Chebukati said the commission is mandated by the Constitution to conduct elections and boundary reviews. “It is a job which must be done after eight to 12 years,” he said. “Every party is free to express their views. We had two goals: one was to conduct the 2017 general election, and we will continue to carry out our mandate as stipulated in the Constitution.” TOUR Mr Chebukati on Wednesday began a tour of the Coast IEBC offices. He said the tour aims at creating a bond between the IEBC county managers and the people. Speaking to journalists at the Malindi International Airport, the IEBC chairman, who was accompanied by constituency coordinators, said he would visit Tana River, Kilifi, Mombasa, Kwale and Taita Taveta counties before heading to Makueni County. “The Chair and his team will tour all the 47 counties to give them capacity to ensure services in the area are understood by the counties. “We will also congratulate them for the job they did during the August 8 elections,” he said.   Politicians have been known to influence drawing of census reports and constituency boundaries.