Kisumu All Stars on Thursday pulled level on points with leaders Western Stima at the summit of the National Super League (NSL) following their 1-0 win over Administration Police at Moi Stadium in Kisumu. Both sides are on 17 points but Stima are top courtesy of a superior goal difference. Debutant All Stars are now placed second on the log with an impressive run of five wins, two draws and a loss. The lone goal of the thrilling encounter was scored by substitute Dennis Ochieng in the 86th minute after being set up by Alex Waiswa. All Stars coach Nick Aketch hailed his side's win. "The match was difficult especially in the second half but the boys worked hard and deserved the win," Aketch said. "I am very thankful to the players for this result.” All Stars showed intent from the first match with Billy Agai's long ball that sailed just inches past the Police's goal-post and Isaac Bole's close range shot that was well dealt with by Police goalkeeper Paul Khasenye. A few minutes later, the host were on the offensive again, but Dismas Amunga's goal-bound shot was cleared off the line by Police defender Nerius Wekesa. The first corner of the match came in the 20th minute in favour of the Police, but they were not clinical enough to capitalise on it. A build-up by the visitors a few minutes later was intercepted by Samuel Ogolla and he put Gerishon Arabe's through, but the forward's shot again missed the target. As the two teams broke for halftime, the visitors had no shots on goal. Looking to strengthen his striking force, Aketch withdrew midfielder Isaac Bole for forward Dennis Ochieng at the start of the second half. All Stars goalkeeper Nicholas Adkiny saved Bradley Makokha's shot in the 51st minute to rescue the hosts from falling behind as the visitors finally came alive. Five minutes later, Adkiny once again came to the rescue of his side as he denied Robert Jagero a chance to give his side the lead by pulling off a double save. Police coach Juma Behlee made his first substitution in the 77th minute, when he brought on Humphrey Alemba for Robert Jagero. Police fell behind ten minutes later courtesy of Ochieng's goal to sink deep into relegation. Coach Behlee attributed their loss to bad luck saying his charges gave their best in the second half. "Things did not just work out for us. We deserved to come out of this game with at least a point but we were unlucky. We were poor at first half but we gave our best in the second half," said Behlee. All Stars travel to Mombasa to face Modern Coast Rangers in their next match, while Administration Police will face leaders Western Stima.  