Two Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) soldiers taking part in the ongoing multi-agency security operation in Boni Forest have sustained injuries after their vehicle overturned at Milihoi in Lamu County. The vehicle which was carrying more than ten soldiers who were on their normal patrol of the area is said to have veered off the road before rolling and injuring the two soldiers. Mr Douglas Kirocho, the police commander in charge of the operation told the Nation Sunday morning that the two injured soldiers were immediately taken for treatment to an undisclosed hospital. He added that they were in stable condition. “Our KDF soldiers were conducting their usual patrols within the operation areas when their vehicle was involved in a normal road accident at Milihoi. Two among the several soldiers that were in the vehicle sustained minor injuries. The two have already been taken for immediate medical attention and are stable,” said Mr Kirocho. LINDA BONI The incident happened at a time when security agencies taking part in the ongoing Operation Linda Boni in Lamu, Tana River and Garissa counties have intensified patrols and manhunt for Al-Shabaab militants who have been conducting terror attacks on civilians and security personnel in the region. According to KDF Spokesman David Obonyo, the move to launch more patrols in all the northern Kenya counties and the border points was precipitated by the December 30, 2017 incident where Al-Shabaab terrorists attacked Ijara Police Station and made away with a police Land Cruiser vehicle and destroyed a Safaricom mast. ATTACK FOILED On Sunday last week, security agencies in the area foiled an attempted IED attack and possible ambush by Al-Shabaab militants on their convoy at the Hulugho-Galmagalla road just metres from the Kenya-Somalia border. The agencies comprising of the KDF and the Rural Border Patrol Unit (RBPU) were on their usual patrol at around 2.30pm when they spotted suspicious marks along the road which led to the recovery of an IED believed to have been targeting the convoy.  