The Weatherman recently jolted our wits with forecast of a deadly heat wave that may hit our arid and semi-arid world. Such is a rare phenomenon. But then, no doubt our climate has gone bonkers — oscillating between extremes as if on an overdose of opium — and this heralds a grave existential concern for pastoralists. Heat wave can cause massive deaths. It’s also a tinderbox for conflict. But if it were not heat wave, it would be punitive drought or biblical flooding. It is, therefore, a wake-up call for the government and pastoralists to re-engineer strategies towards a regime of climate-smart pastoralism — an adaptive system that can cushion pastoralists from the unpredictable climatic behaviours. LIVESTOCKPart of this is to ensure smart utilisation of pastureland; introduction of productive and hardy breeds; ensuring standards in husbandry, especially in control of diseases; and penetrating lucrative markets for beef and skins. Marketing of livestock has always been wobbly for pastoralists. First, cultural trappings are the biggest encumbrance to commercialisation. Second, markets are controlled by nifty brokers and cattle cartels. Third, diseases — especially foot and mouth, rinderpest and anthrax — are a huge scare. Fourth, malnourished cattle fetch far less at the bazaar. COMMERCEWe cannot even talk of the multibillion-dollar international markets for our mediocrity in breeding. These deficiencies have to be fixed. This demands for an overhaul of rudimentary attitudes, policies and regulations inconsistent with the emerging realities. Of course the World Bank leads in the charm offensive of what it aptly calls Climate Smart Agriculture Project. It has a war chest of $250 million (Sh25 billion), which ropes in smallholder farmers as well as pastoralists. Indeed, it’s time we broke fresh ground towards diversification of the pastoralist economy, modernising the cattle industry and engaging communities to plan and implement cattle development projects. CATTLE FARMINGThere is a need to streamline cattle markets, spur a value addition regime and ensure proper management of rangelands and water resources. Also in the mix is technology. Success towards resilience is pegged on a nuanced monitoring and understanding of weather patterns and timeously communicating the same to pastoralists for action. It will also help to deal with diseases and offer real-time market information. Refreshingly, the Kenya Veterinary Association recently started a tagging system for cattle. Tagging is critical for traceability of origin, care and breed of cattle. Discerning consumers can make informed decisions on product choices and those that meet the cut earn a premium. Importantly, it will frustrate the cattle rustling rampant in the arid and semi-arid land (Asal). ECONOMYThe effort towards climate-smart pastoralism should be an integral part of strategic plans of Asal counties. Commitment and passion will attract investment, where locals will have a substantive stake. A livestock wealth fund would be another plank, to be utilised during crises or for supporting the welfare of future generations. Leaders and the civil society must also demand that the national government honour its obligations to the pastoral community as per the Constitution. Take, for example, the equalisation fund envisioned in Article 260. Seven years on, it is yet to be implemented. Yet the fund’s window closes in 13 years. DISCRIMINATEDThe pastoralist world has received negative branding since colonial times — badlands, sterile and unfit of government attention and investment. This culminated in the formulation of Sessional Paper No. 10 of 1965 that starved the regions of financing. For decades, the livestock sector has been let to operate informally because it was equated to culture. Local governments, businessmen and middlemen had a field day exploiting the pastoralists. INVESTMENT Pastoralists, too, largely lack business literacy as they are detached from formal market systems. They cannot even countercheck even nitty-gritties like prices for their stock. The future of cattle is anchored on standards and regulations. Standards will guide on the kind of feeds, veterinary services and even the right size and age to sell cattle. With international standards, pastoralists can venture into the export market, make money and beat climate challenges. Mr Wamanji is a public relations and communication adviser. ewamanji@yahoo.co.uk Twitter: @manjis  