There were conflicting reports among Nasa Senators Monday on when Siaya Senator James Orengo will be endorsed to replace his Bungoma colleague Moses Wetang’ula as the leader of minority in the Senate. Mr Orengo was expected to be endorsed at the Nasa Senate Parliamentary Group meeting after members expressed lack of confidence in the leadership of Mr Wetang’ula. 'DONE DEAL' Although a section of the PG members led by Narok Senator Ledama Ole Kina said that the fate of Mr Wetang’ula has already been sealed, his Homabay colleague, Moses Kajwang’ said that the meeting will be held Tuesday. “I can tell you that Mr Wetang’ula’s case is a done deal. We met today and endorsed Mr Orengo’s name,” Mr Ole Kina said Monday at the Parliament Buildings. However, Mr Kajwang’ said that the PG had been pushed for Tuesday morning after members registered their absence from town. “Tuesday will be a great day because I am seeing a good number of Senators out of town. It is the reason why the PG meeting failed to take place today (Monday),” Mr Kajwang’ said adding; “we want everything to be done in broad day light and not under any cover of darkness.” A notice sent to members equally read; “a meeting of the Nasa Senate Parliamentary Group is to be held on Tuesday March 20, 2018 at the Senate Lounge, Parliament Buildings at 9am.” According to the notice, the agenda includes the election of Senate Minority Leader in accordance with the speaker Kenneth Lusaka’s ruling of March 15 and any other business. On Thursday last week, the ODM Parliamentary Group meeting at Orange house passed a resolution to kick out Mr Wetang’ula over claims of mistreating his colleagues in the House. The speaker was informed of the move but delayed granting ODM its wishes. Mr Lusaka ruled that even though the party meeting that resolved to have the Senator replaced was valid, his removal would be suspended as the election of his replacement was unprocedural. The speaker’s ruling is the reason the PG is necessary to ratify the ODM decision. Though a section of Wiper and ANC Senators have said that they may not attend the meeting because of the positions taken by their party leaders; Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) to support Mr Wetang’ula, ODM will still have the numbers to carry the day. Out of the 28 elected and nominated Senators, ODM boasts of 20, Wiper has four, ANC three while Ford Kenya has only one, Mr Wetang’ula. The PG meeting comes as Mr Wetang’ula reached out to his Nasa co- principals Mr Raila Odinga, Mr Musyoka and Mr Mudavadi for a truce. The principals are scheduled to meet Tuesday.   ODM wants Ford-Kenya leader replaced by Orengo as Senate minority leader.