Women’s shoes are so pretty. Pretty insane sometimes, but pretty all the same. They are also stilted torture instruments. And the $86 billion (Sh8.6tr) global athletic footwear has had an inkling about this for years now. As I write this, Adidas have just recorded a profit of $24 billion (Sh2.4tr) in the past year alone. China is their biggest market, naturally. But, that is not the most fascinating part. Well, not for me anyway seeing I am not Chinese. The market for women’s sneakers is creeping up slowly. American start-up sneaker brand APL is seven years old. Their market is 65 per cent female. They decided to set up in a niche that the big boys had disregarded. In their opinion, which I absolutely love, female sneakers go beyond “shrinking it and making it pink.” Their brand was first spotted on uber influencer Kim Kardashian who introduced her siblings to the brand and with the Kardashian-Jenner machinery advertising is sorted. The beauty of APL is in it’s very clean zero logo look that blends itself into a woman’s wardrobe. Which is why it is no shocker Nike are hitting Paris Fashion Week (February 27 to March 6) with Unlaced, a display they are citing as the “fantasy sneaker destination for women.” The shop in a shop concept includes a remake of Air Jordans for women because it isn’t enough to make them smaller. There will be a March 27 launch of an online store featuring Unlaced. STROKE OF GENIUS Nike realised sneakers are very much a part of women’s lifestyles – no kidding – and of course studies in the US have shown 75 per cent of people who put on sneakers have no intention of working out. They might want to look like they do, but they want sneakers to be a lifestyle choice. Their stroke of genius lies in their execution of unlaced. They will employ stylists to show women all the ways in which they can make sneakers work. In turn, they are working with sneaker communities in the fashion capitals as well as key global cities, and will capitalise on female content creators for their online platform once it goes up. Nike’s sales have been boosted up to 22 per cent just by focusing on the female market. They are not working with any athletes or mainstream celebrities. Instead, they are going for high profile social media personalities. Locally women have their own preferences when it comes to sneakers. The black and white laced Vans sneakers have to be the most popular pair, real or knock offs. Adidas Stan Smith’s are still classics especially with their unisex vibe. Converse seem to go with everything. Chuck Taylors will always be legend. Adidas Originals have crossover appeal and Skechers make their way around town. Of course there are cult favourites Bata bullets – I never thought I would say that about a Kenyan anything! I wonder if all the Steve Madden fans have picked up his sneakers yet, especially the wedge sneakers. Meanwhile Adidas has roped in superstar Rihanna and yet another uber social media influencer Kylie Jenner for their traction with millenials. When your social media influence is the size of a large continent, it is hard to ignore that kind of pull and power. Puma are not necessarily interested in athletic personalities. Not if you have seen any of Rihanna’s designs from slides to cleat creepers. And especially if you consider Fenty x Puma sells out in hours. Puma want in on the demographic of followers their key influencers wield. Nike’s closest competitor adidas in not just looking into rubber soles. As far as they are concerned, their honey is bras and tights. These will bring the women home, and once there, shoes are the next best stop. They are working on a more holistic approach to close in on Nike. The rest of the fashion industry is getting in on it too. After all athleisure wear is now the biggest fashion market with so many products the head spins. Brands such as Chanel that have haute couture studios are also designing sneakers for women. When a phrase like ‘athletic couture’ comes out to play, you know it’s serious. So ladies, you have been warned. Fashion is coming for you. And it is determined that you will stock up on as many iterations of sneakers as there have been for men, possibly even more because naturally your feet are so tired.   Before fashion schools existed, talent was fashioned through apprenticeships. No one does this anymore