Ousted Senate Minority Leader Moses Wetang’ula said he would not fight to be reinstated as he is no longer interested in the position. The Ford-Kenya leader was removed from the position by ODM senators and Siaya Senator James Orengo was chosen to replace him last Tuesday. NOT INTERESTED Mr Wetang’ula added that he would not attend the planned Nasa retreat aimed at ironing out issues on the ouster, which is threatening the coalition. "What is there to be discussed [during the retreat]? I shall and will not participate in the retreat. I would be subjecting myself to a court of hyenas. "Even if offered the seat, I will not take it. Wakae nayo, asante. (Let them stay with it, thank you). Let the games begin. We shall give them small but lethal doses," added the Bungoma senator. Mr Wetang’ula was categorical that he did not bargain for the post, but being a Nasa co-principal the coalition leaders decided that he take up the position.   SUPPORT He hit out at ODM for taking Western for a ride despite the overwhelming support party leader Raila Odinga has received from the region over the years. Mr Wetang’ula said that just like in 2013, Ford-Kenya joined forces with ODM in 2017. "We put all our resources and energy into this enterprise but we have nothing to show as the Mulembe Nation," said Mr Wetang’ula during a press conference at Bungoma Club. "I've been branded 'embattled'. Let me declare here and now that I'm very much at peace with myself. "I thought the status quo would be reaffirmed [in the Nasa Summit meeting held last Thursday] but I was subjected to name calling and humiliation. The statements made in the meeting seem to have been cleverly rehearsed to embarrass me," Mr Wetang’ula said. He was accompanied by Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi, Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati and former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale. Others were MPs Wafula Wamunyinyi (Kanduyi), Eseli Simiyu (Tongaren) and Ayub Savula (Lugari). DIALOGUE Mr Mudavadi said the dialogue between Mr Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta sidelined other Nasa co-principals. "We are not against dialogue but we want a constructive, broad-based, all-inclusive dialogue. "Nobody has exclusive rights to negotiation. Canaan yetu si Harambee House, bado tunaendelea mbele (Our Canaan is not Harambee House. We are still moving forward)," added Mr Mudavadi. The ANC leader said that the church should be the only guarantor of constructive national dialogue for the country to move forward and avoid “a lot of defaults on the way”. Earlier, the leaders attended a church service at Christ the King Cathedral in Bungoma Town.   UNITY Mr Mudavadi hinted at plans for all Western parties to unite to form one political outfit ahead of the 2022 elections. "Other regions have done it. I don't see the reason why we should not do it here. We as Western leaders stand with Wetang’ula," he said. He said that when they joined forces as Nasa, their main aim was to strengthen reforms and independence of constitutional bodies, among other positive changes. "We regret to say that the dream of Nasa has not been fulfilled. Our country is still grappling with a lot of challenges, including youth unemployment," said Mr Mudavadi. He opposed the push for privatisation of the sugar industry which he said should be well structured so that farmers in sugar cane rich regions in Nyanza and Western do not suffer. The leaders also addressed a rally at Bungoma bus park where they stressed the need for Luhya unity to increase their chances of getting to State House.   We can now begin serious discussions on the issues we have identified that are of concern to all of us.