The suspension of Kenyatta National Hospital top executives over bungled brain surgery should mark the beginning of a thorough clean-up of the veritable mess at the institution. Kenyatta National Hospital, the country’s main referral health facility, has stumbled from crisis to another in recent times raising serious questions about its processes, professional standards and management systems. But the latest blunder where doctors performed brain surgery on a wrong patient peaked it all. It is inconceivable how such a thing can happen in an institution with a team of professionals and proper systems. CHILD THEFTJust a few days ago, the hospital was in the news over a case of child theft and although the suspects were caught and taken to court to face criminal charges, questions still abound about the institutions security systems. Hardly a month ago, the hospital was caught up in a horrible situation with the revelation weaning mothers were being harassed by some night duty staff, sparking public outrage. Often times, the hospital has been faulted for poor services, dysfunctional systems, inadequate and obsolete equipment and sheer poor service delivery. Yet the hospital boasts of top-notch professionals, resources and reasonably good funding from the Exchequer. ACHIEVEMENTOn occasions, the hospital has performed exceedingly well. For example, it has performed some delicate surgeries like separating conjoined twins, which means it has capacity. However, there is some level of inefficiency that is troubling. Reports of professional negligence and recklessness and systemic failures are rather too common. Even if the staff is overwhelmed, the gaffes are just unacceptable. INVESTIGATIONS Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki has done the right thing to suspend the hospital’s chief executive Lily Koros and the director of clinical services Bernard Githae and ordered thorough investigation into the bungled surgery. That is a good start but not enough. Investigations were ordered over safety of mothers at the hospital but nothing much came out of it. Ms Kariuki must ensure the investigations are concluded quickly and take drastic actions on the culprits. Most importantly, she must carry out thorough shake-up and clear the rot at KNH.  