Supreme Court Deputy Registrar Daniel ole Keiwua is among the 10 shortlisted candidates for the position of the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP). The position felt vacant after the exit and subsequent appointment of Mr Keriako Tobiko as Environment Cabinet Secretary. SHORTLIST Also in the list are former IEBC commissioner Thomas Letangule, Senior Counsel Lucy Kambuni, National Intelligence Service (NIS) Senior Director Noordin Mohamed Haji, Machakos Chief Magistrate Abdulkadir L. H. Ramadhan and Patrick Magero Gumo. They will battle it out with three deputy directors of public prosecutions – Mrs Dorcas Oduor, Mr Ondari Jacob and Mr Nicholas Mutuku to take over from Mr Tobiko. Mrs Odour, who is now the acting DPP, has 15 years prosecutorial experience; Mr Ondari, the economic, international and emerging crimes department boss, has 13 years’ experience; and Mr Nicholas, in charge of the Department of Offence against the Person, worked for 10 years. Senior Assistant Director of Public Prosecutions James Mungai Warui has also been shortlisted to fight it with his three bosses. SELECTION The DPP appointment selection panel axed two University of Nairobi School of Law scholars Dr Wamuti Ndegwa (Mombasa campus) and Dr Njaramba Gichuki, and former Gatanga MP Dr Humphrey K Njuguna. The three academicians and politician Julius ole Sunkuli were part of 17 applicants out of 27 who applied for the DPP’s position but were not shortlisted. The Public Service Commission invited judges, magistrates, advocates and academic or legal experts with at least 10 years’ experience to apply for the position. The holder, who would earn Sh765,188 as monthly salary and get other benefits, can serve a maximum of eight years. The applicants are required to be of high moral character, integrity and impartiality, fairness, good temperament and good judgment both legal and life experiences, community to public and community service among others. PANEL Members of the selection panel include Kennedy Kihara (Office of the President), Maryann Njau (Attorney General’s office) and Lilian Omollo (Ministry of Public Service). Others are Ms Kagwiria Mbogori (Kenya National Commission on Human Rights), Ms Elizabeth Muli (Law Society of Kenya), Mr Francis Atwoli (Central Organisation of Trade Unions) and Mr Halakhe Waqo (Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission). The panel was tasked with advertising the position and shortlisting those who meet the requirements for interviews. After the interviews, the selection panel is required to submit to the President three names of those who are most qualified. APPOINTMENT The president will then select one person and forward the name to the National Assembly for vetting. If the MPs approve the person, they will send the name to the president for formal appointment. If they do not approve the name, the recruitment process starts afresh. The Constitution provides that the Director of Public Prosecutions will be nominated and, with the approval of the National Assembly, appointed by the President.   Keriako Tobiko resigned in January after he was nominated CS.