Hosts and defending champions Kakamega High School on Saturday retained their Rugby 15s crown as the Kakamega County Secondary Schools Term One Games came to a close. Kakamega defeated their bitter rivals St Peter’s Mumias 8-3 in a fiercely contested final encounter. It was a repeat of last year’s finals in which Kakamega won 3-0 in the finals that were held at Mukumu Boys Secondary School. During Saturday’s mouth watering final clash, Kakamega, who are also the national kings, took an early lead via hooker Timothy Omela, who touched down unconverted try in the 16th minute. St Peter’s put up a fierce battle, which saw centre Emmanuel Mule drill home a penalty in the 20th minute. Determination by Kakamega saw them secure a penalty, which man-of-the match Omela successfully kicked the ball between the poles in the match that was officiated by Collins Wekesa. Kakamega led 8-3 at the breather. Upon resumption, both teams mounted an attacking game, but none was lucky to access the try box and Kakamega held on for the win. Kakamega coach Amos Wamanga admitted that the match was tough. “My boys had an upper hand in the early stages of the first half, but they lost steam as they headed to the breather,” he said. St Peter’s tactician Shimenga Livondo equally expressed the same sentiments. “We were let down by poor ball carriage, something I will work on as we head to the Regional games," he noted. The winner and runners up qualified to take part in the Western Region Secondary School Games Term One Games. In boys' basketball finals, Kakamega High School retained their title after they defeated Mukumu Secondary School 75-63 in a fiercely contested final encounter. In the girls' category, Butere Girls hammered Mukumu Girls 66-28 to also retain their crown. Mukumu retained the boys' handball crown after beating Butere Secondary School 37-15 in the final match. In girls' hockey, Mukumu were crowned new winners after thy defeated Moi Nangili secondary School 3-0. Musingu Secondary School retained the boys' title after they defeated Kakamega High School 3-0. The competition was being used to select schools that will represent the County at the Western Region Secondary Schools Term One Games that will be held from March 21 to 24 at Friends School Kamusinga in Bungoma County.  