Cracks in the National Super Alliance widened on Saturday when two principals launched an attack against Orange Democratic Movement leader Raila Odinga, accusing him of using and dumping a community. Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang’ula told the Luhya to unite and lock Mr Odinga’s ODM out of western region in 2022. In their stopover rallies in Vihiga County, the two said Mr Odinga had turned the community into a laughing stock after “using and dumping it”. However, ODM Secretary-General Edwin Sifuna and Secretary of Political Affairs Opiyo Wandayi told off the two. NO BETRAYAL “People should unite for positive things like ensuring we fight poverty not negatives like fighting others,” Mr Sifuna told the Sunday Nation. “We will not benefit as Luhyas by running back into our simbas (a small hut).” Mr Wandayi said Mr Mudavadi and Mr Wetang'ula were on a “self-destructive mode”. “There is nothing like betrayal of the Luhya. Nobody can claim to represent an entire community in politics,” the Ugunja MP said. But Mr Mudavadi insisted that the ouster of Mr Wetang’ula as Senate minority leader and the reference to them as cowards was a clear indication that the ODM leader was no longer interested in the community. JOURNEY “It is time for the Luhya to unite. We need the unity now more than ever. We have in the past taken different political positions making other people to use and dump us,” said Mr Mudavadi in Majengo, Mbale, Chavakali, Shamakhokho and Cheptulu. “We must learn to unite. You have seen what happened in the Senate.” Mr Mudavadi said the journey that was begun by Nasa had not ended and laughed off the March 9 meeting between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Mr Odinga. INCLUSIVE DIALOGUE He asked the community to rally behind Nasa and support the quest by ANC and Ford Kenya to lead the opposition alliance. “Our people were teargassed by police here in Majengo and many others were injured. No one has compensated them. Dialogue should be transparent and inclusive,” he said. “Dialogue should involve the civil society, religious leaders, women, youth and politicians.” Mr Wetang’ula said he and Mr Mudavadi had returned to their backyard with a call for a united community "after ODM stripped me of leadership in the Senate". SHEEP “Mudavadi has spent 10 years supporting Raila. I equally supported Raila in 2013 and 2017. Our unity is our strength,” he said. “The majority cannot continue to be subordinate to the minority. We sacrificed for Raila. It is time he reciprocates.” And in reference to his removal as Senate minority leader, Mr Wetang’ula added: “The sheep spends its entire life fearing the wolf only to be eaten by the shepherd. It is the shepherd who had the knife.” Ford Kenya deputy party leader Boni Khalwale asked the two leaders to merge their parties ahead of 2022. “I am crying my fellow Luhya. It is a pity that Raila now thinks we don’t matter. I ask Mudavadi and Wetang’ula to unite,” he said.   The party said it is the biggest in the National Super Alliance and should be treated as such.