Strathmore Leos and Nakuru face moments of reckoning on Saturday when they battle for the only remaining top six play-offs slot in the Kenya Cup. Only three points separate the Leos, who are placed sixth with 25 and Nakuru, who are seventh as they face tricky opponents in the last round of the regular league season before the pressure-cooker, do-or-die play-offs knock-outs. Homeboyz, who are placed second in the league with 44 points, stand between Strathmore Leos and the final slot as the two sides meet at Madaraka while Nakuru are at Railway Club to face hosts Mwamba. Defeat for both sides will see the Leos, who are 2013 Kenya Cup losing finalists go through. But if Nakuru win and Strathmore loses then the Great Rift side will go through. A win against the Deejays should see the Leos cement their sixth place but more important see them return to the post season for the first time since the 24-21 semi-final loss to KCB during the 2014/15 season. “We have different perspective going into the match. Homeboyz would like to maintain form while it’s a do-or-die match for us,” said Strathmore Leos coach John Mbai. “We want to get the results regardless of what happens elsewhere.” Mbai will be without injured front-row Andrew Okot, back-row Dan Makulutu and Philemon Olang but will have 18-year-old Obat Kake and Motoka Motoka in his side. Leaders, defending champions and unbeaten Kenya Commercial Bank host third placed Impala Saracens at the banker’s Sports Club. The bankers are seeking their first Kenya Cup win against the Sarries since December 12, 2014. KCB, who beat the Sarries 22-3 at the Rugby Football Union of East Africa grounds then will certainly be gunning for victory so as to stretch their unbeaten run this season to 11 matches. Nondescripts’ last shot at the play-offs missed last weekend when they lost to Nakuru 24-11 away but they will be out to end the season with victory against Kenya Harlequin at the Jamhuri Park show grounds. It will be a formality match for Quins who have already qualified for the play-offs. Even though both sides have been relegated, Kisii will be playing for pride when they host Mombasa at the Gusii Stadium in Kisii. Kenyatta University’s Blak Blad are out to sign off the season in style when they meet the 2016 champions Kabras Sugar at the Kenyatta University grounds. Kabras Sugar will be hoping to bounce back from their 41-12 defeat by KCB last weekend in Ruaraka with victory. KCB and Homeboyz, who top with 49 and 44 points respectively, have claimed the first two automatic slots for the semi-finals. The next four teams will engage in pre-semi-finals clashes as KCB and Homeboyz lie in wait. KENYA CUP FIXTURES Kisii v Mombasa (Gusii Stadium) KCB v Impala Saracens (KCB Sports Club) Mwamba v Nakuru (Railway Club) Nondescripts v Quins (Jamhuri Park) Leos v Homeboyz (Madaraka) Blak Blad v Kabras Sugar (Kenyatta University)   Kenyatta University’s Blak Blad play at home to Kabras Sugar.