Eric Muriu is a photographer. 1. How would you describe yourself? Passionate and resilient. I have always had this borderline obsessive nature when it comes to things I am interested in, be it technology, cars or sports. That transferred over to my work when I eventually figured out what direction I wanted my life to take. Besides my work, I enjoy listening to music and spending time with my loved ones. I also love coffee and have recently began brewing my own. I am on a journey to learn as much as I can about the entire process - growing, drying, roasting, grinding and brewing of coffee. My career, described in one word, is a roller-coaster. I started from the bottom, and every now and then when I seem to be doing well, things come crashing down. The opposite, however, also rings true. Whenever I feel like things couldn’t get better, I get amazing opportunities that convince me that I am on the right path.  2. When and how did you start photography? I have taken pictures most of my life, but my career began in earnest on October 19, 2015. Up until May of 2015, I was an engineering student at the University of Nairobi. I wasn’t very passionate about the course, and as a result, performed poorly. For a few months, I was lost, trying to figure out a way forward since engineering was no longer an option. One of my best friends advised me to take a break and just live. She said, “You need to do something that’s not school related. Just sleep, travel or dance. Anything but stressing over the way forward.” At around the same time, a close family friend was joining the Kenya Army, and I asked him to leave his camera with me for the five months he would be away. I had no intention of using it to work, I just wanted to take nice pictures. By the time he returned from training, I was working full time in a photo studio and also freelancing on the side to make ends meet.  3. What are some of the things you’ve found really amazing to photograph? This is difficult to answer because there are so many. A significant portion of my commissioned work is in the real estate industry. I, for instance got an opportunity to photograph The Lazizi Premier Hotel at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport before they opened their doors to the public. At heart, I am a portrait photographer, and one amazing opportunity I got was to photograph Darshan Chandaria in his home. He was a great subject, he even let me sit in one of his amazing cars and took a picture of me. I also enjoy photographing my friends’ weddings because we really do take the best pictures of what we love.  4. What was it like to be hired to photograph the Chris Brown concert, and do you find it hard to separate an artist from his art? For instance, listen to Chris Brown and not think about Rihanna? The job was cool because of the backstory. I had just lost my job at the photo studio I was working at three days before I got the call to go shoot the concert. I didn’t even know that Chris Brown was visiting Kenya. I did a quick Google search to confirm, and when I saw that the featured artists were Wizkid, Vanessa Mdee and Ali Kiba, I called back and accepted the job. These days, it’s become easier because I try not to idolise people I like or whose work I admire. To be human is to be flawed, and many people make mistakes or sometimes just make bad decisions.  5. What do you see in your future? Where do you want to be five years from now? I would like to travel around the continent telling stories about the amazing Africans I encounter and hopefully contribute towards shaping positive African narratives. I want to continue learning and growing as a photographer. I am still finding myself, so hopefully, in five years’ time, I will have a distinct style. I have started developing a reputation as a black and white photographer, and I’d like to see how far I can take that. Anyone who is interested in seeing the portrait project I’m doing now can check out my Instagram page (@ericmuriu) as well as my Behance portfolio, which is linked on my Instagram bio.   Grace is a 26-year-old special effects make-up artist, who describes herself as an artist in learning, a storyteller in grooming, and a mother of one.