Africa’s heads of state achieved a major feat this week when they signed a pact to expand and consolidate continental trade and cooperation. It was the culmination of a long walk that started way back in 2002 under the auspices of African Union, whose goal is to create a prosperous continent by 2063. However, the dream of a common destiny was dealt a severe blow as the continent’s big economies – South Africa and Nigeria – pulled out and failed to sign the agreement, ostensibly to protect their industries and markets. This signals the challenges ahead – protectionism, insularity and mistrust – as the continent starts the long walk to full cooperation. EMANCIPATIONThe creation of the African Continental Free Trade Area is an idea whose time has come. It has been on the table since the early years of independence in the 1960s. Africa’s pioneering leaders, such as Ghana’s Kwame Nkrumah, long contemplated continent-wide cooperation to emancipate the people from political, social and economic oppression. However, this was hampered by political, social and economic upheavals and external influences. TRADEIt is a settled fact that regional trade and cooperation is vital for growth of nations. European Union, although faltering against the backdrop of Brexit, remains one of the most outstanding examples of successful regional collaborations. Africa, with a population of 1.2 billion, stands to gain immensely from the intra-continental pact. It paves the path for smooth trade and movement of people and services as well as creating a large consumer base with potential for huge dividends. CHALLENGES It also allows cooperation and collaboration in other areas like higher education, research and innovation. But, we recognise the task ahead is herculean. This is the continent with the poorest infrastructure, few and inadequate airports and serious security challenges. Most countries operate restrictive legal and policy regimes, inflexible processes of visa issuance and prohibitive tax tariffs. Suspicion and mistrust abound, which is the reason even close neighbours like East African countries cannot pull through the Common Market Protocol. For now, the task is to roll out practical steps to actualise the cooperation, while lobbying those out to sign in.  