City Hall has sent home two senior officers from the Finance and Planning Department pending investigations. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko on Friday cracked the whip on Finance Executive Danvas Makori and Chief Officer Ekaya Alumasi for allegedly working with former governor Evans Kidero. SENT HOME "It does not matter who you are, where you come from or what you have done. This is serious business and we must all deliver and serve Nairobians as we had promised during the campaign period," said Mr Sonko. Dr Makori was barely three months into the Finance and Planning docket after having been brought in to replace Ms Veska Kangogo. He was formerly at the Agriculture and Livestock docket. This is the first County Executive Member to be sent home in Governor Sonko's administration. According to City Hall deputy director of communication Elkana Jacob, Dr Makori was sent home following accusations that he was working for people fighting Governor Sonko. "It was established on Wednesday evening that Dr Makori has been giving out information to people who were mentioned in the Sh21 billion syndicate during Dr Evans Kidero's regime," he said. Our attempts to reach Dr Makori for comment were unsuccessful as our calls and text message went unanswered. AUDIT According to a KPMG report commissioned by Mr Sonko and released this month, Nairobi County lost more than Sh21 billion between 2013 and 2017. The audit report implicated Dr Kidero, who is accused of presiding over the loss of the money, with Governor Sonko saying that he will go after any person implicated in the allegations. It is alleged that the Finance executive went behind Governor Sonko's back and was in constant communication with Mr Kidero, his associates and other people opposing Mr Sonko. Dr Makori served in the former administration as the personal assistant to Dr Kidero. INVESTIGATIONS Mr Jacob said that according to some multiple sources and detectives unearthing the Sh21 billion graft, Mr Makori's constant communication with Mr Kidero and his team would jeopardise investigations. "The KPMG report is not a joke and it’s just a matter of time before you start seeing people being prosecuted. "Mr Makori cannot go behind his boss and start leaking crucial information to key people who were mentioned in that report, especially Sonko’s enemies," said one of the investigators. Mr Ekaya has been under fire over several irregular payments amounting to billions of shillings. Mr Jacob said that the matter is being handled by detectives and once they are done with investigations the matter would be made public.  