It was only last week that Kuya, and his coalition in the staffroom raised various questions about my decision to revamp the school’s focus on extra-curricular activities, using the new young and energetic trio of Aggripa, Tracy and Atlas. Were it not for the unwavering support for extra-curricular activities by Bensouda, we would have stopped this weeks ago. However, despite Bensouda’s support, Kuya warned that we would regret this decision, and knowing him very well and how malicious he could get, I would not be surprised if he did something. I don’t want to say that he set us up, but events this ending week have been interesting. Two weeks ago, it was announced that the athletics championships would begin last weekend. Unlike other schools who started rehearsing as soon as dates were announced, under Atlas, my school already had a team and they started fine tuning their act. “I already have a good team,” Atlas told me. “Our focus is on nationals, not this cluster thing.” “I give you my full support,” I said, and asked him what else he needed. REACH NATIONALS “Just time,” he said. “If the children can be allowed to be arriving in school early and leave a little later, we would be developing a team that will reach the nationals.” With permission granted, the team has been starting their road work very early at 6am. In the evening, during games time, Atlas takes the students through 100 metre races, relays and other sports. After this, he would leave with the cross-country team for a run in the village. And therein lies the problem. “Does anyone know what happens with the cross-country kids every evening?” Asked Kuya in a staff meeting last Tuesday. “I told you this thing was bad lakini hamukuskia.” “What is the issue Mr Kuya?” Asked Bensouda. “Atlas is not here so I can’t ask him.” “Do we know the route they take during cross-country? Or what time they come back?” He asked. “Just tell us or keep quiet if you don’t know.” Bensouda told him. RELAY “I could say but I encourage you to investigate, even today,” Kuya  said. “That is not leadership Kuya,” said Bensouda. “But thank you anyway for bringing this to our attention. We will get to the bottom of this.”   After the meeting, Bensouda called Kuya to her office where they talked for long before coming to my office. “Dre, your friend Atlas should not know we are investigating him, ok?”  That day, Atlas arrived a few minutes before games time. He could miss school in the morning but never the games. I was watching from the staffroom as Atlas took the pupils through the paces on relay, 100m, javelin, triple jump, among others. It was a joy to watch him as he was very passionate. A few minutes before 6pm was time for cross-country, and the team left with Atlas. Six boys and three girls. I wanted to follow them but I saw no need. Had I not seen lots of commitment from Atlas? What else did I want from a games teacher?  But something told me to stay behind until they returned. By 7pm, no one had returned, the first group of two boys and one girl arrived at around 10 minutes past 7pm, walk-running and very tired. They just went to their classroom, took their bags and left. Another set arrived shortly after, a boy and a girl, walking briskly, holding hands. They took their books and left. All along I was seated in my office, lights off. COMMOTION I did not need a calculator to know that there was a problem here. One or two other students may have come but I was not so keen. I was in deep thought when I heard a commotion outside. “Leo utatwambia nini ulikuwa unataka kufanya na msichana wangu,” I heard someone who sounded like Nyayo say. They were going past the school, so I switched on the lights to alert everyone. “Shida gani Nyayo?” I asked in a loud voice. On hearing my voice, they came to the school. They had tied Atlas’ hands with a rope. “Leo tumempata live live,” said Nyayo. I asked him what they had caught Atlas doing live? “Amekuwa akiharibu wasichana wetu leo amepatikana.” “Ulinipata nikifanya nini?” Asked Atlas, who gathered some courage on seeing me. “You know what you wanted to do Atlas,” said Nyayo in some good English. Later we heard what had happened. As they were running, and it was getting late, one of the girls, Awinja, Nyayo’s daughter in class seven, detoured into Rasto’s sugar cane plantation. Atlas who was running behind her decided to follow her and that is when Nyayo and other villagers accosted him. CONFLICT RESOLUTION “Why did my Awinja go to the bush and why were you following her?” Asked Nyayo. Atlas explained that he was always the last one in the troupe and his job was to ensure everyone is safe. “And if any of the runners for example goes for a short call, I follow them from a distance to ensure they are safe.” “Sisi sio watoto Atlas,” said Nyayo. “Tumekuwa tukikuona for some time.” Using my internationally recognised conflict resolution credentials, I convinced them to release him after agreeing to meet first thing the next morning to resolve the case. Nyayo arrived in school with his daughter. Bensouda also arrived at 9am. I had feared that Atlas would not come but he came. We went to Bensouda’s office where Atlas retold his story. Nyayo also spoke, adding that Atlas had been seen going to the farm with girls on several occasions. “Uongo!” Atlas said. Bensouda told him to keep quiet. The next person to speak was Awinja. STAFF MEETING “We always run every day and Mr Atlas is always behind us,” she started. She said she went for a short call, but even before she could begin she heard people accost Atlas and accuse the two of them of having something ulterior. “Ilikuwa tu short call na Mwalimu hakutaka mtu ama mnyama ani-attack” Bensouda called for a staff meeting afterwards. “Dre I can’t believe all this has been happening under your nose.” “And you Atlas, you would have been jailed. Pick all your belongings and leave immediately!” Bensouda barked to Atlas’ shock. “For the rest of you,” she said once Atlas left, “No one should be in school before 7am or ever be in this school or running an activity after 6pm, have you heard?” She asked. Every one nodded. She then left for her office followed by a very happy Kuya. I don’t know what they discussed there but I can be sure I was part of the agenda. mwalimuandrew@gmail.com www.facebook.com/mwisho-walami  