Festive showers of musical, poetical and stage events have delighted many show-goers during the past couple of weeks, and there is a forecast of more such servings in days to come. Saturday evening, as we went to the press, a rare ensemble from central Asia’s Pamiri region graced the stage at Aga Khan Pavilion, Parklands, showcasing mystical music, devotional songs and dance traditions. The artistes are in Kenya courtesy the Aga Khan Trust for Culture. The concert highlights the art of master performers of Badakhshan ensemble and Afghan Rubab duets. It is part of the commemoration of Diamond Jubilee of His Highness the Aga Khan. On Tuesday, Kenbharti Centre, in association with the High Commission of India, hosted Rashtriya Kavi Samelan — a poetical symposium — at Apa Pant Auditorium, Highridge. Leading Hindi muses of mirth were on stage. Humorous and patriotic renderings by the world renowned Anil Choubey, Sudeep Bhola, Buddhi Prakash, Sunil Vyas and Ashok Bharti injected fun and reverence into the evening. Dinesh Raghuvanshi, poet and emcee, carried the show to greater heights of delight. GLITTERING EVENT Elsewhere, the much awaited 5th Edition of Asian Weekly Achievers Awards ceremony was held last Saturday evening at Diamond Plaza 2. The glittering event to celebrate great achievers in various fields of service to the community, fashion, business, philanthropy, sports, creative and performing arts was watched by an inspired full house of guests, and thousands of readers of ‘Asian Weekly’ in the comfort of their homes, courtesy Channel 1. A magnificent showing was hosted by radio personalities Kamal Kaur and Vikash Pattni. Entertaining performances and fashion shows coupled with creative stage settings and visuals delighted the audience. Even if the rains dampen your mood this afternoon, make an effort to visit East FM’s Koroga Premier League at Curries on Masari Road, Parklands. A Sunday packaged with  culinary fun awaits you as the second knock-out round rolls on to select semi-finalists. And finally, it is Navrang Fine Arts Foundation and their musical magnum opus Hazaron Khawahishein, this Saturday at Oshwal Centre, Westlands. www.nation.co.ke     Email: qureshi@simbatech  