Since 1963, Kenya has pursued a development agenda based on five-year plan cycles largely informed by the population demands and other diverse considerations. However, our population has increased more than five-fold to 49 million yet the paradigm of our development planning have not substantially changed to accommodate challenging geographical constraints. We have pursued policies geared towards satisfying demands without due regard to how we can maximise benefits for the greater majority. If we observe rural Kenya, it is quite evident that we have insatiable demands for water, electricity, roads, health services, security, food, schools and security. And these demands are not abating; they are increasing by the day. Our focus on development has not shifted from the rural-based one to realising that a new dispensation is taking shape in all corners of the republic — that of unplanned, unhealthy aggressive urbanisation as a matter of course, whose consequences are very grave indeed. PHYSICAL PLANNING This inevitability will soon, if not right now, be a millstone around the neck of the country’s progress. Once people have settled in areas without proper physical planning — or, more appropriately, haphazardly without conforming to the law — it will become very expensive, if not impossible, to re-plan the area. It is, therefore, important that we don’t wait until it is too late. The greatest manifestations of this is found in urban informal settlements, where even the fire brigade has no way of reaching to put out fires or deal with other disasters. For instance, instead of supplying electricity countrywide to everyone in the villages and individual homesteads, it may be wise to develop urban areas where all the facilities are available and concentrate people there. PARADIGM SHIFT Kenya’s rural electrification strategy is costly, unrealistic and unbearable for a nation struggling with limited resources. In most developed countries, especially in Europe, it is clear that housing people together and providing them with common services is both more feasible and affordable than what Kenya is trying to do. This calls for a paradigm shift by policy makers and a serious discourse through public participation to educate the citizenry that the country cannot afford to provide for their needs to their satisfaction when they are scattered. Common benefits under this policy as a long-term objective include economies of scale, greater cohesion of the people and improved agricultural farm outputs with better utilisation of the land without petty subdivisions around homesteads. There will be greater productivity, to the benefit of the population. The Israeli Moshave type of co-operative agricultural community of individual farms and collective principles model is an example of how greater productivity can be enhanced when you have people sharing common services while leaving the rest of land for productive individual farming. GREATER INVESTMENT This will also enhance greater investment in common welfare and security. The government will be more effective in service delivery with concentration of people in given locations as opposed to when they are all over. This might be frowned at as advocating villagenisation, characterised by what Julius Nyerere, the then-President of Tanzania, called Ujamaa Village Model. Though Ujamaa failed miserably because of poor implementation, Nyerere was lightyears ahead of his time and the current exigencies bear testimony to this fact. Though this concept is a hard sell, it is time the country began to deal with realities insofar as our development agenda is concerned through investing every tax shilling where it will derive maximum return for the largest common good. Mr Kabage is an advocate of the High Court of Kenya. kabage@pacific-group.co.ke  