The National Social Security Fund has never been short of controversies. The latest row over a multibillion-shilling building construction in Nairobi adds to the trail of disputes that have seen the Fund lose billions of taxpayers’ cash over the years. In the current case, construction of a building christened Hazina Trade Centre has stalled due to unpaid fees; which costs are suspect and questionable. Available information indicates that the costs have nearly doubled from the original contractual sum and, worse, the bills are continually rising with new variations of project completion dates. SCANDALSAt inception, the project was estimated to cost Sh6.7 billion but that has risen astronomically, raising concerns that this may end up being another scam where billions of workers’ cash is lost. And there is every reason to be worried despite assurances by the Fund. The NSSF has a history of scandalous projects and transactions. In the Kanu era, NSSF was the choice source of easy money for political plotters and their acolytes. The Fund was pushed into dubious projects, some of which stalled midstream, but all the same sank in huge sums of money. DEVELOPMENTWhereas it makes sense for NSSF to invest money it collects from workers on income-generating projects, the challenge is that such undertakings tend to be counter-productive. Instead of being completed on time and within budget, the projects end up being varied by huge margins and which proceeds end up benefiting a few. It is not lost that the building project has moved from one crisis to another since inception. At one point, the anchor tenant, Nakumatt Supermarket, now struggling to stay afloat, stopped construction of the additional storeys. The Nairobi City authorities had also taken issue with additional construction and took time to give its approval. But it defied such odds. INVESTIGATIONNow it has hit new headwinds and action has to be taken. We acknowledge the fact that Labour Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yattani has promised to investigate the matter to determine the authenticity of the costs and establish those behind what looks like a scheme to milk the Fund. A Parliamentary committee has also taken it up and visited the site to establish the truth about the project. The NSSF has been going through radical transformation institutionally and in service provision in recent years to shed off its earlier tag of politicians’ cash cow. No longer should it be a den for schemers and looters. The investigations must be thorough to determine the validity of the project costs, seal all loopholes and ensure public money is not put to waste. Those found culpable must be sanctioned.  