Q. I am in a dilemma. My immediate boss is not only a bully, he also heaps his work on me. Since he got the position three years ago, I have contemplated quitting twice. A month ago, he sent me an email saying that he was eyeing a position in another department and needed a recommendation letter from one of his juniors. He requested me to write him one. Unfortunately, I have nothing good to say about him, what do I do?  Having a domineering boss is not a pleasant experience, however, it gives you an opportunity to learn to work under extreme pressure and deliver. Every boss has a different working style, and it is the responsibility of the employees working under him or her to learn and adapt to that style of management. This is what you must attune yourself to, and view it as a learning opportunity to acquire skills and learn how to manage your boss. It will serve you well in your career. Whatever skills set or competency you possess, if you are not able to manage your boss, then you will have to put up with a hostile working environment, which is not conducive to your career, and to some extent your personal wellbeing. I interviewed a young professional who was working for a multinational a few years ago. Her main reason for seeking a new job was because her boss would over-delegate his responsibilities. My advice to her was that she should embrace the trust and confidence her boss had accorded her. I recently met her, and she informed me that she had been promoted within the same organisation. That said, I really do not see the reason for your hesitation in giving the recommendation letter required. I see no integrity issues, I only see a boss who is strict. I also see a boss that has confidence and faith that you will put in a good and credible reference for him, a factor that you should not take for granted. Please proceed and give him a good recommendation, citing his willingness to delegate as a strength. Also point out that he is a trusting supervisor who seeks to grow and develop members of his team. The tragedy is that you might get another boss who is the opposite of your current one, a boss that will be lax and untrusting, making your joy short-lived as you might find yourself thrown from the pan into the fire.   I am a human resource manager, but as I write this, I am a distressed employee.