Emuhaya MP Omboko Milemba has criticised MPs from north eastern led by National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale over their remarks that non-local teachers who have fled the area over insecurity be forced back to teach. Mr Milemba who is also the chairman of Kenya Union of Post-Primary Education Teachers (Kuppet) said the demand is uncalled for and not well-intended. In a statement, Mr Milemba said: “North eastern remains a region that non-local teachers are not respected, the communities are hostile to teachers, the students can and often beat up teachers and these leaders are aware of this.” Mr Milemba went on: “My colleagues in Parliament have not even publicly condemned the killing of the teachers, instead they are equating teachers to the Kenya Defence forces in Somalia and wondering why so many KDF staff have died yet Kenya has not pulled out of Somalia. Such comparison is uncalled for.” HOLD MEETINGS The MP said the local leaders should organise public meetings not only to condemn the killings of non-local teachers but also guarantee security. “We stand and support the Teachers Service Commission move to withdraw the non-local teachers from the region and take them to secure places until security can be assured in this region. In the same breath, we ask the MPs and leaders from these areas not to intimidate the Commission but instead actualise security in the said region,” added Mr Milemba. He also cautioned TSC against interdicting teachers camping at its headquarter or use police to harass them. Instead, TSC should move them to secure places, he said. Mr Milemba added that MPs with background in education have already asked the National Assembly to discuss the matter exhaustively with the aim of getting a long-lasting solution to the problem. Last week, TSC transferred a number of teachers from Wajir after their colleagues were killed by suspected Al-Shabaab militants. The move attracted condemnation from Mr Duale. ADDRESS INSECURITY Last week, TSC CEO Nancy Macharia told the Committee chaired by Mr Julius Melly that insecurity in arid and semi-arid areas needs to be addressed. “Serious challenges have been experienced majorly in Mandera, Wajir, Lamu and Garissa counties due to the Al-Shabaab menace. The emerging trend by the terror groups to specifically attack non-local teachers has worsened the situation,” said Mrs Macharia. She said since 2015, the commission has buried young and energetic teachers who for the love and passion of their profession were posted to serve in north eastern region. Mrs Macharia said in 2015, the commission had to interdict 2,000 teachers who declined to report to their stations of work due to perceived insecurity in the region. According to Nderitu Wangechi, a teacher from Mandera, the conditions in the county have become very hostile for non-local teachers. He said that when the matter was reported to the TSC County Director Jamal Ahmed, the teachers were threatened. “He was claiming this morning that Mandera is very safe, yet it is very unsafe for non-local teachers,” Mr Wangechi said at the TSC offices on Monday.  