Three-time World Half Marathon champion Geoffrey Kamworor jetted back Tuesday morning to no fanfare at the Eldoret International Airport. Unlike other world beaters who are mostly welcomed by family members and friends with mursik and adorned in the famous traditional Kalenjin ceremonial plant Sinendet, Kamworor was only received by his friend Laban Chepsoi. Not even his wife was at the airport to receive him since she had gone to work. Nation Sport caught up with the athlete at his home in Eldoret where he said he is taking a break after a “tough job” in Valencia where he successfully retained his World Half Marathon title on Saturday after clocking 1:00:02. “I’m happy I retained my title,” said the 25-yar-old. On the lack of fanfare, Kamworor, who is also the New York City Marathon champion, said: I have always arrived to no celebrations because I believe time for that will come.” BROKE AWAY Kamworor, who broke away after the 15km mark, said that his compatriots could not give the chase because the pace was too first. “I decided to break at 15km mark and increase my pace but my compatriots could not keep up because the pace was high. The Ethiopians tried to follow me but they too dropped and that is why I was able to lead to the tape,” said the Kaptagat-based athlete. Kamworor said he will now take a two weeks break before embarking on training as he sets his eyes on the Diamond League series where he will be participating 5,000m and 10,000m races. “When I go back to training, I will be concentrating on track events in 5,000m and 10,000m as preparations for the Diamond League series that starts in May,” he said. After the Diamond League series, Kamworor is targeting to retain his New York Marathon title later in the year. “Next year, we have the World Cross Country Championships and the World Championships and I will be looking forward to do well in the events.”   Geoffrey Kamworor on Saturday won his third consecutive IAAF World Half Marathon title in 1:00:02 in Valencia, Spain.