Edith Vethi Mwanzia Nyenze, widow of the late Kitui West MP Francis Nyenze, has won the seat with a landslide. Despite poor voter turnout that marred the first by-election in the 12th Parliament, Mrs Nyenze, the candidate nominated by the Wiper Party, garnered 72.67 percent of the votes cast, to convincingly whitewash her four competitors. 38PC TURNOUT Mrs Nyenze proved that she had been a significant force in her late husband’s political career when she garnered 14,372 votes beating her closest rival by a whopping 12,326 votes in an election where only 38 percent of the 52,042 registered voters turned up. Mr Dennis Muli Mulwa, a youthful candidate who ran as an independent, came distant second, garnering only 2, 046 votes while Nairobi businessman Robert Mutiso Lelli of Narc-Kenya came in third with 1784 votes. Kitui West IEBC returning officer James Mbai, who released the official results at Matinyani Social Hall, declared Mrs Nyenze the winner and congratulated her. “I wish to declare Edith VEthi Nyenze as the Kitui West Member of Parliament-elect because she has garnered the highest number of votes” Mr Mbai said after manual tallying of the results from 143 polling centres. Kenya Social Congress candidate, Dr Fridah Nyiva Mutui, who teaches environmental science  at Catholic university, came fourth with 1,075 votes. Mr Elijah Muimi Kilonzi of CCM, who was contesting the seat for the fourth time, came last with 499 votes. EX-PRINCIPAL Mrs Nyenze, a former principal of Kyondoni Girls Secondary School in the constituency, resigned recently from the Retirement Benefits Authority. She thanked her supporters for the victory and promised to serve all without discrimination. “I’ll be the MP for all Kitui West people regardless of how you voted in this election” Mrs Nyenze said in a brief victory speech. She extended an olive branch to her competitors and called on them join hands with her in serving the people. The new lawmaker, who was flanked by Kitui Central MP Makali Muli and Kauwi Ward MCA Jane Mutua, said she better understands the needs of Kitui West and was prepared for the new task. Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua, who is also her young brother, was among the first people to congratulate Mrs Nyenze after the IEBC declared her the winner. "I take this early opportunity to most humbly and sincerely congratulate the MP-elect for Kitui West Mrs Edith Vethi Mwanzia Nyenze,” he said in a statement to media. “I thank the people of Kitui West for conducting themselves with utmost dignity during the campaigns, voting and tallying.” Mr Wambua also congratulated the other candidates "for running their campaigns in the best way they could".  