The unity pact between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga is not a political stunt but a commitment to peace and development of the country, Deputy President William Ruto has said. Speaking during a tour of West Pokot County to launch development projects on Friday, Mr Ruto said other leaders should follow the example set by President Kenyatta and Mr Odinga. UNITY “We have agreed as leaders to unite and work together as President Kenyatta and Raila have done,” said Mr Ruto. He added: “We are uniting not because of political interests or for selfish reasons. We are uniting because of the unity of Kenyans so that we can focus on development to ensure the lives of Kenyans are transformed”. The Deputy President who also presided over a graduation ceremony at Chesta Teachers Training College, told leaders to take the lead in preaching peace and reconciliation among all Kenyans irrespective of their political, ethnic and religious persuasions. He said issues pertaining the last General Election have been overtaken by events following the unity pact between President Kenyatta and the Opposition leader. “Issues of politics from Monday to Monday, from day to night are now behind us. Let’s now plan on development and how to address the needs of our people,” said Mr Ruto. He told West Pokot leaders to stop political wrangles and concentrate on servicing the people who elected them. “It’s the voters who had the final say during the last elections. Governor Lonyangapuo was elected on a Kanu ticket and we are working together because we have the same goal of serving the people. All of us should do the same,” said Mr Ruto. PEACE The Deputy President, at the same time, launched the construction of a peace school to address challenges of insecurity. Katikomor Primary School along the West Pokot, Trans Nzoia-Uganda border is expected to bring together communities in the region fighting over land and cattle. West Pokot County has pledged to give Sh20 million for the project with the Deputy President promising another Sh20 million from the national government. Mr Ruto said similar schools would be launched along the borders of West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo-Samburu and Turkana Counties as a measure to containing banditry and cattle rustling activities.   Nasa leader reveals what motivated dialogue and why some people close him were kept in the dark.