Peninah Achieng’, a resident of Nyalenya village in Muhoroni sub county, believes she is being eaten ‘alive’. The septuagenarian cannot walk on her own. Her toes and fingers are massively swollen and disfigured. Her skin on her foot is flaky and pitted due to jigger infestations. “I used to be a strong and energetic woman who would do tasks unassisted. But this has changed in the last two years. I am just like a baby,” she told Nation. Mrs Achieng’, widowed, is today forced to crawl around her one-roomed house as she goes around her daily business. As Kenya marks the National Jiggers’ Day at Chemelil Grounds on Saturday, victims like Mrs Achieng are crying for help. STIGMAThe jiggers have affected tens of people in the region and others across Kenya. At the nearby Nyalenya Primary School, over 50 per cent of the pupils are victims of jiggers, which brings about social stigma and shame. The head teacher of the school, David Matete, says the attack poses danger on education of the children as a result of increased cases of absenteeism. Good Hearted Friends volunteer Silas Odhiambo however cites the dusty conditions in the homes and schools as the breeding grounds for the jiggers, which have become rampant in the region. For a complete eradication of the bug, Mr Odhiambo underlined the need for fumigation of homes, schools and animals. AWARENESS Ahadi Trust Executive Director Stanley Kamau said on Friday the organisation will rollout activities to educate Kenyans on how to curb jiggers. Under the theme “Social, economic empowerment for jigger elimination”, Dr Kamau points out that Kenyans need to be economically empowered to reduce cases of jigger infestation, which is usually associated with poverty. “We are going to issue 3,500 chickens to 35 women groups from Kisumu County as a way of empowering them financially,” he said. Dr Kamau also indicated that Ahadi Trust will donate shoes to the residents who are highly at risk of being infected by the deadly fleas. “We have developed close working relationship with Kisumu County government which has committed to assist the victims by empowering them financially,” Dr Kamau said. Mr Odhiambo pointed that approximately 5,000 people are affected by the pest in Kisumu County alone. The victims of the jigger infestation usually experience swelling of their limbs, itching and infection which can lead to amputation and even death in the worst cases.  