When Edith Vethi wedded her long-time boyfriend Francis Nyenze on August 10, 1985, nothing prepared her for the events that would define her marriage and subsequent entry into elective politics. In the following weeks, she had to cut short her honeymoon to attend the funeral of the then Kitui West MP Kitili Mwendwa following a road crash. Aged 24 and a year after graduating from the Kenya Science Teachers College, the newly-wed tutor accompanied her husband to the burial ceremony where they were neither noticed nor given seats. Mr Mwendwa passed away a year after being elected in a by-election. But time has lapsed fast, and Edith ran for the same seat  three decades later, winning with a landslide, to succeed her husband of 32 years who died of colon cancer in December last year, barely five months after his re-election as the MP for Kitui West. SIGNIFICANT FORCE The mother of three, two daughters and a son, who ran on Wiper party ticket, proved that she had been a significant force in her late husband’s political career when she garnered 14,372 (72.67 per cent) of total votes cast. Her closest rival Dennis Muli Mulwa, who ran as an independent candidate, garnered 2,046 votes. Mrs Nyenze did not have any political ambitions and only wanted to be a good wife and pursue a quiet career in teaching. “I never imagined that a moment will come for me to run for political office. I was always contented helping my late husband in doing his politics but God had bigger plans than my dreams,” she told the Nation moments after being declared the winner on Tuesday. Her late husband joined elective politics in 1992 and faced off with Mr Mwendwa’s widow, the former Cabinet Minister Nyiva Mwendwa in at least four consecutive general elections. STUDENT LEADER “My husband was a student leader at the university and he genuinely admired Kitili and that’s why we had to cut short our honeymoon for us to attend his funeral” she recalled. When the late Nyenze won the 1997 elections on a Kanu ticket, the young couple was thrust to national limelight when retired President Daniel Moi appointed him to the Cabinet. By then, she was still teaching at Kyondoni Girls Secondary School in Kitui West, her first posting from college where she had advanced in her career in 12 years to head the same school as its principal. CONSOLATION “I taught for 16 years after college in one secondary school. By the time my husband won the first election, I was serving as the principal and continued teaching throughout his first term in parliament,” she explained, adding she resigned to join the Retirement Benefits Authority as a manager. Her election as MP is a consolation for her husband’s death but a new chapter in her public service career.  “I’ll be the MP for all Kitui West people regardless of how you voted in this election,” Mrs Nyenze said in a brief victory speech where she extended an olive branch to her competitors, asking them to support her.   Decision by Jubilee to back Wiper candidate caught many by surprise.