MPs have summoned Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs Cabinet Secretary Margaret Kobia and the management of Huduma Kenya over claims that the procurement of Huduma smart service payment card was marred by financial irregularities. Prof Kobia and Huduma Kenya CEO Dennis Mutuku are expected before the Administration and National Security Committee of the National Assembly which is investigating the multi-million tender awarded to three leading financial institutions in the country. Though KCB Bank, Equity Bank and Commercial Bank of Africa “won” the tender, the Prof Kobia and the CEO are expected to explain to the MPs why it was allegedly awarded without following due process. DIGITAL PAYMENTS Huduma smart service is a response to President Kenyatta’s call that all government services in the country be a one-stop shop digital payment instrument. The strategy involves the development of a unified and integrated multi-channel payment gateway to facilitate ease of payment for government service through debit card, M-Pesa and PayPal among others. President Kenyatta is banking on the success of Huduma centres for a legacy at the end of his second and final term in office. But the latest revelations could blot the good standing of the institution famed for winning international accolades for easing government services to the people. CONFUSION The confusion over the manner the contract was procured was evident last week when the ministry’s Chief Administrative Secretary Rachael Shebesh and Principal Secretary Ms Lilian Mbogo-Omollo disassociated themselves with the explanation the Huduma Kenya CEO gave to MPs. “I was not briefed about this matter prior to coming here and neither was the PS. I wish to disassociate myself from what has been said here on behalf of the CS,” Ms Shebesh told the committee. She pleaded to the MPs for more time to get relevant information related to the tender. Mr Mutuku had told the committee chaired by Kiambaa MP Paul Koinange that the procurement was above board as it had met all the requirements of the law. NO TECHNICAL CAPACITY However, things got tight for him when MPs demanded to know whether he was aware that some of the financial institutions awarded the tender did not have the technical capacity and a payment card distribution network. “Are you aware that some of these financial institutions have no capacity to roll out the service to Kenyans?” Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi sought to know. Mr Koinange demanded to know whether there was any feasibility study, policy guidelines or Cabinet decision that had been reached before committing the government with the service providers. Among other issues the MPs will be seeking answers for is the criteria used for costing and sharing of revenue in the contractual arrangement between the government and the service providers.  