The new Moi University Vice Chancellor Isaac Kosgey took over office on Wednesday with a promise to find solutions to the myriad challenges the institution faces. The university had not had a substantive VC for more than a year. NEW VICE CHANCELLOR Acting VC Laban Ayiro handed over the office’s instruments to Prof Kosgey in a ceremony graced by the university’s council, chaired by Dr Jeremiah Koshal. Prof Ayiro was appointed acting VC from September 2016 by then Education CS Fred Matiang’i, following the retirement of Prof Richard Mibey who had served for 10 years. Prof Ayiro was to initially act for three months but subsequent extensions by Dr Matiang’i saw him hold the position for close to 18 months. “I want to thank God for the opportunity he gave me to be your acting vice chancellor and to give me the temerity, the stability of mind and the vision to hold the university as the government was seeking a substantive vice chancellor,” he said. AUDIT The institution was going through a tough time when he took over, following damning revelations of mismanagement by an audit ordered by the Ministry of Education. The audit showed massive financial irregularities in which the university had dozens of accounts that were often used to swindle the institution’s finances. The Special Audit Report on Financial Operations at Moi University for the Financial Years 2013/14 to 2015/2016 found that at least Sh1 billion had been embezzled. On Wednesday, Prof Ayiro alluded to the huge challenge he faced when he was appointed. “Was this VC’s position a poisoned chalice? The answer is no. It has been a great experience. I have no regrets. My heart is clean,” he said. Prof Ayiro said he would continue teaching at the university. READY Prof Kosgey, who was the Deputy Vice Chancellor at Laikipia University, beat Prof Ayiro to the position in interviews conducted by the Council late last year. He said he was ready to face the challenges that came with the office. “I am coming in to be a servant of this university. I know it is a big responsibility bestowed on me to head such a big institution being the second largest university in Kenya. “[What we want is to] do what we are supposed to do because we are judged by higher standards,” said the VC.   Prof Kosgey replaces Prof Laban Ayiro.