Gor Mahia will warm up for next week’s Caf Champions League first round tie against Esperance of Tunisia with a tricky Kenyan Premier League match against Bandari at Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos on Saturday. This will be Gor's final match before the first leg tie set for Wednesday next week against the Tunisian giants. K’Ogalo will be looking to bounce back to winning ways after their midweek stalemate against Tusker when they take on high-flying Bandari as they seek to head into Wednesday’s crunch tie in high spirits. Having played four games in just 11 days, Gor coach Dylan Kerr has decried the fixture glut although his plea to the Kenyan Premier League to have Saturday’s match postponed was rejected. But the Englishman has a big squad that he has managed to rotate successfully since the start of the campaign. The 16-time champions managed only a barren draw against the brewers, a result that left Kerr furious after his players failed to convert a number of clear cut chances in the match. Bandari, who lost both matches to Gor last season, will be hoping to beat K’Ogalo for the first time in six matches. “I would like to play the same team I worked with last weekend, but I can’t because I have to think about fatigue, injury and I have to find the best solution against Esperance,” Kerr said. Just like Gor, the dockers are yet to taste defeat this season, and are positioned third on the KPL table with just two points behind the table leaders. “There is nothing to fear. We are also unbeaten, just like them and I can tell you our confidence levels are high like never before,” said Bandari coach Ken Odhiambo. POSTA, SOFAPAKA CLASH The Gor-Bandari match will be preceded by a potentially explosive tie pitting Sofapaka against Posta Rangers from 2pm at the same venue. Posta and Sofapaka will be seeking to climb up the standings with victory from this encounter. On Sunday, AFC Leopards will be without coach Robert Matano, who has been asked to step aside, as they travel to Sony Sugar in Awendo. The big cats will be looking to bounce back from Wednesday’s 2-1 loss to Sofapaka in Narok. Ingwe have won just once in three games, and will be under long-serving assistant coach Dennis Kitambi in Awendo. At the Afraha Stadium, former champions Ulinzi Stars will welcome Tusker at the Afraha Stadium while Thika United take on second-placed Mathare United in Thika. Nzoia Sugar, the only team without a point this season, host Kakamega Homeboyz at the Sudi Stadium today hoping to kick start their campaign with a win. FIXTURES Saturday: Chemelil Sugar v Zoo (Chemelil Sports Complex, 2pm) Sofapaka v Posta Rangers (Machakos Stadium, 2pm) Vihiga United v Nakumatt (Bukhungu) Nzoia Sugar v Kakamega Homeboyz (Sudi Stadium, 3pm) Gor Mahia v Bandari (Machakos Stadium, 4.15pm) Sunday: Thika United v Mathare United Thika Stadium, 3pm) Sony Sugar v AFC Leopards (Awendo Green Stadium, 3pm) Wazito v Kariobangi Sharks (Camp Toyoyo, 3pm) Ulinzi Stars v Tusker (Afraha Stadium, 3pm)  