A man on Tuesday confessed to stealing approximately 700 phones since he started robbing people in Nairobi. Speaking to the Nairobi City County anti-mugging squad officers, Mr Victor Eshiwani claimed he cannot count the number of people he has robbed but only told the officers: “Nimeiba simu mia saba. (I have stolen 700 phones).” CONFESSION Mr Eshiwani said he would not mug steal again, and pleaded with the officers to set him free so he can look for a job. “I even have a shed where I can sell items but I do not have the capital to invest,” he said. But the anti-mugging squad officers said they have no faith in his pleas. They said Mr Eshiwani is part of a group of a gang of five that has been arrested several times. But every time they are charged in court, their families bail them out, they added. SUSPECTS Several suspects were arrested in an operation on Moi Avenue, Racecourse Road, Ronald Ngala Street, Tom Mboya Road and Wakulima Market area. “These muggers are some of the most dangerous in town,” Senior Sergeant Osoro Albert told the Nation. Mr Eshiwani, according to the anti-mugging squad officers, is a notorious criminal and does not care how many times he is arrested. “He can even kill. We have arrested him countless times,” said Mr Osoro. However, Mr Eshiwani denies he has accomplices and says that he met another mugger on the day of his arrest. “He was alone and he was also doing that job. I operate alone, but I have also seen others who operate from there. Some four of them work together. “They were mugging people at noon. I can show them to you. But if you can set me free, I can go look for something else decent to do for a living. I am very sure that I am not coming back here and you will never again see me here,” Mr Eshiwani told the officers. ARREST Another mugger confessed that he is frequently arrested but nothing serious comes from it. “Nimezoea kukamatwa. (I am accustomed to being arrested),” said the man who appeared drunk. He struggled to explain to the anti-mugging squad officers that he had been jailed at Shimo la Tewa Prison in Mombasa for 18 months after the Mombasa County Council arrested him. In Nairobi, he has been held several times. “Nimekaa City Hall, nimepelekwa jela ndogo hapo South C, nimepelekwa Industrial Area eti naenda naripotitiwa nilikuwa nimepanga ngari ati mimi mi mwizi, na hakuna kitu…” the man said. (I have been detained at City Hall, I have been taken to a small jail in South C; I have been taken to Industrial Area and charged with being a thief, but nothing happens). ‘DANGEROUS’ Senior sergeant Osoro said some four muggers arrested on Tuesday are among the “most dangerous” in town. “They originate from Majengo, Mathare, Kayole, Githurai and areas along Jogoo Roads. We re-arrested them today [Tuesday] from their mugging hideouts, just a few hours after they were released from prison,” he added. Mr Osoro explained that the suspects' families and relatives make it difficult for the muggers to reform. “When they are charged in court, they are sentenced to imprisonment with an option for the payment of fines ranging from Sh40,000 to Sh50,000. Their families contribute the money and bail them out,” he said. This is also making the work of the anti-mugging squad difficult, and contributing to the rise in the number of muggings in the city, Mr Osoro said. “Every week, we have to re-arrest these muggers. Chances are that they may never reform,” he lamented.  