It was on Thursday evening when the Nation arrived at Heathrow Airport, Terminal 2, to cover the arrival of Dr Miguna Miguna who was scheduled to land in the UK. All was well until the plane carrying the self-declared National Resistance Movement (NRM) general touched down from Germany with other passengers. NRM TOUR All travellers destined for the Queen's land but Dr Miguna made their way out of the airport. Moments later, the fiery lawyer, in a WhatsApp message, informed his hosts waiting outside the airport that he had been flagged down by the UK border control officials and police. His clearance, he said, was to be delayed if at all he would be let to proceed. The wait lasted around three hours from the time he arrived at the airport. He was later let into the country and allowed to proceed with the NRM tour in Oxford and London. Unknown to the hosts, Dr Miguna had been detained. TERROR ACT He was locked up under Schedule 7 of UK’s Terrorism Act 2000, which is reserved for Special Branch officers. The law gives the police powers to examine persons of interest who pass through the UK borders. Narrating his ordeal, Dr Miguna told audience at the University of Oxford that Britain is the “beast of colonialism” and it continues to regard Kenya as its colony. He went on to accuse the host nation of orchestrating the recent political instability in Kenya for self-gain, citing Cambridge Analytica, a data firm that has claimed to have influenced President Kenyatta’s win, as a product of UK’s wide scheme. The barrister, who practises in Canada, accused senior figures in the Jubilee administration of his woes, claiming they made calls to the “higher-ups” in the UK to frustrate him. Dr Miguna said he would return to Kenya today after a six-week stay in Canada, where he was deported by the government following the controversial ‘swearing-in’. He said his Emirates flight, EK19, will touch down at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport at 2.30pm where he will be met by ODM members led by Senate Minority Leader James Orengo, his family and his legal team that has worked round the clock to secure his return. WRATH In a statement he release on Sunday before his departure from Toronto, Dr Miguna remained defiant and criticised the Jubilee government for failing to facilitate his smooth return in line with various orders of the High Court. “I wish to underline that the government has so far refused to guarantee my personal safety and security upon and after my return to and stay in Kenya,” Dr Miguna said, referring to various court orders issued by Justices Luka Kimaru and Chacha Mwita. He particularly condemned Interior CS Fred Matiang'i, Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet and Immigration Principal Secretary Gordon Kihalang’wa. “They have so far refused to obey and comply with the various court orders by Justices Kimaru and Chacha Mwita requiring them individually and collectively to return or reissue my Kenyan passport,” he said. Mr Orengo announced the return of Dr Miguna on Saturday during the burial of Justice Joseph Onguto and urged Mr Odinga to join him at the airport in welcoming the lawyer back home. An advocate of the High Court of Kenya, Dr Miguna earned the wrath of the government when he commissioned the papers Mr Odinga’s used to take the oath as the ‘people’s president’ at Uhuru Park.   Fiery lawyer and self-declared NRM general says he will land in Nairobi on March 26.