As a member of The Friends of Uhuru Caucus in support of dialogue between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Nasa leader Raila Odinga, I feel vindicated by their recent unity pact. Professional political sycophants who roundly condemned us then are now the most vocal praise singers of the move. That said, I hope that this unity shall help to tackle our most pressing national challenges. Corruption has become ‘democratised’ with most Kenyans committed to ‘eating from where they work’ and the general public condoning it by bribing for deserved services. We have to redesign the unique Kenyan corruption and prosecution fishing net — which only catches small fish and lets the big ones slip through — by dealing decisively with culprits. Tolerance to divergent opinion and respect for the independence of institutions will support the crusade. Our very top political leaders use and condone tribalism for selfish political and economic gain because there are no consequences for ethnic haters. TRIBAL LORDS In addition to drastic action against tribal lords, leadership of educational institutions has to be de-ethnicised. To promote inclusiveness, there is a need for a national databank on distribution of jobs across counties, showing the progress in achieving equity. Uhuru and Raila being the biggest beneficiaries of unquestioning tribal bloc votes, they should lead the way in denouncing tribalism as the only way to being voted in as well as a crusade to make the presidency possible for candidates from minority communities. We must lock out the corrupt and ethnic bigots from electoral and other leadership positions by religiously applying the integrity clause of the Constitution. Lack of integrity actually enhances the chances of landing a top State job and most voters prefer the corrupt because that is their only chance of partaking in the ‘eating’. PRONE TO CRIME IEBC officials who rig elections must be punished as individuals. The vote of an ethnic minority and majority should be equated in the American way to prevent the more populous communities from taking all. Kenya is one of the most unequal countries and, therefore, one of the most highly prone to crime. Equality can be achieved by an equitable tax regime, rewarding philanthropy, access to quality education and other essential services for the majority, regulating prices of basic needs such as housing and food and affirmative action in employment and business. Most poor Kenyans have given up on securing a job because qualification often includes ability to bribe or connection to an influential person. Millionaires who have made it through corrupt deals are omnipresent as genuinely hardworking Kenyans struggle with bank loans. If non-merit considerations become the accepted way to upward mobility, expect imminent trouble from frustrated youth, who will see little value in education. Politicising deforestation is the best guarantee to an unsustainable future. PLANTING TREES Politicians who encourage constituents or friends to settle on water towers and riparian reserves and deplete our forest cover should, instead, craft feasible economic empowerment policies for those who depend on deforestation. Annual planting of trees should be as an essential element of our national culture. While the government must invest in fighting terrorism, whoever harbours terrorists must be dealt with harshly and leaders held accountable for terrorism acts in their home areas. There is an urgent need for a no-nonsense road traffic tsar, a Michuki type. Lax traffic police officers and engineers who approve roads that become death traps must individually pay the price and culpable contractors penalised. INEFFICIENT BUREAUCRACIES It is hard to convince the public of failure to provide essential services when they see waste all over — large inefficient bureaucracies, huge salaries and benefits for a few and business class travel for too many officials. This has to be addressed for taxpayers to be patriotic and volunteer even more taxes. Many Kenyans vote in corrupt and tribal leaders believing they are good. The government, and not international NGOs, should lead the way in civic education campaigns on shunning bad leaders. To be taken seriously, religious leaders must be play a truly moral role, not glorify thieves who donate and tithe loot public resources. National prayer meetings should be about national repentance for our collective national hypocrisy; we are, indeed, gravitating towards being a nation of hypocrites. Dr Mwiria (PhD) is a former assistant minister. kilemimwiria@gmail.com  