Should you be worried if you and your partner haven’t had sex for years? Not even cuddling on the sofa? Perhaps it seems like your spouse’s just not interested? And you’re afraid to raise the subject for fear of a put down? Is that normal? That’s a surprisingly difficult question. Because what’s normal in a marriage is really what makes you both happy. And there are plenty of marriages where there’s no sex, and both partners are quite OK with that. So the right question is “Are you worried about not having sex?” Because if you are, then something needs to be done about that. But if you’re not, then everything’s fine. But you should be worried if you and your spouse can’t talk about something as important as intimacy. Every couple should be able to talk about literally everything, and they should be happy hugging, kissing and cuddling one another. Because if you’re not touching and talking, then you’ll gradually lose the connection between you. But many couples find it really difficult to discuss intimacy. If that’s you, then perhaps you should first try improving your sex life without talking about it. And the best way to do that is to try some new physical activities together. Like when was the last time you two went dancing, took a walk or played a sport together? WAKE UP YOUR PASSION So wake up your passion by using your bodies together. Best of all by doing something you’ve never done before, and which is just a little scary. Like hill walking, or learning one of the martial arts. Because if you do something physical that you can enjoy together, then your connection, communication, metabolism and fitness will all increase. Add a little novelty and fear to that, and you’ll soon start feeling passionate about one another again. But if that doesn’t work, then you will have to talk. And don’t beat around the bush. You need to say out loud what’s bothering you. Choose a moment when you’re both in a good mood, and neither of you is hungry, tired, tipsy or rushing off somewhere. And say that you want to talk about sex. Tell your partner that you miss intimacy and still find them attractive. Say you haven’t said anything before because you weren’t sure how to bring up the subject in a way that didn’t feel awkward. And that even now you feel weird talking about it. Ask your partner if they need a little time to think about everything before you talk and if they say yes, fix a time in a day or two. But don’t either of you flake on that appointment! This is a risky conversation, because there many reasons for your lack of intimacy, or you two may have completely lost the skill of talking through tough subjects. But the upsides are huge. So take the risk. And get help from a counsellor if you need it.  nyumbayangu@me.com   As you learn more about each other, you enter stage four. And start having doubts.