I wrote a story in the “Surgeon’s Diary” a few years back to illustrate the advantages of a long surgical practice, many of which I have enjoyed during my 55 years of surgical work in Kenya. It is a story showing that I had treated four generations in one family, starting with the matriarch, the great- grandmother. who came under my scalpel when I had just started out. When I was due to retire, I operated on the great-grand-daughter and took a benign lump out of her breast. The following story is in the same vein, where I saw the person in the same ward in two different roles –at the beginning and end of my surgical career. I was treating a case of Burkitt’s Lymphoma in a 7-year-old boy called Fidel in the children’s ward. Since the disease usually affects the jaw, Burkitt’s usually went to the head and neck surgeon, but Fidel ended up with me because his tumour was unusually small, and the doctor in the filter clinic was not sure what to do so, to play safe,  he sent him to a general surgeon like me. After making the  correct diagnosis, I asked our head and neck surgeon to take over. By then, women were venturing into surgery, until then a strictly a male domain. One of the earlier candidates who went in this branch happened to be student of mine and in reply to my referral said. “You have treated so many of these cases in the past; Fidel is safe under your care. We are so busy in our unit, I am sure the boy will get both efficient and fast treatment under your care.” Then, to lend some authenticity to what she was saying, she added.”In fact, you gave our batch a tutorial on Burkitt’s Tumour and also inspired me to become a surgeon and take up this specialty.” To give my readers a short resumé on Burkitt: he was a surgeon who lived in our time. I met him at Mulago Hospital in 1961, where he worked and saw the huge tumour arising in the neck of local children. The histology on these tumours proved them to be lymphoma, a highly malignant condition and, sadly, the children all died within a short time. To differentiate it from the lymphoma seen in the West, which was slightly different histologically, it was named Burkitt’s  Lymphoma in honour of the man who first discovered and wrote about the disease. To complete the story of this remarkable man, he took an African safari to see where the lymphoma, which bore his name, occurred in the continent, to see if any common factors existed to explain the etiology of this terrible disease which largely affected our children. Burkitt came to the conclusion that the disease occurred at certain altitude and rainfall and  surmised that it was caused by a virus that thrives under those climatic conditions. The jury is out on the exact etiology of Burkitt’s but the virus has been proven as a cause of some cancers and, who knows? It might be responsible for Burkitt’s as well. Luckily, the disease responds favourably to chemotherapy. Here, too, I have a tale to spin because I was a surgeon when chemotherapy was introduced to the surgeon’s armamentarium. We knew of its harmful side-effects but did not know how to prevent them, and so resorted to an improvised method. SERVED ITS PURPOSE I remember helping the late Peter Clifford, head and neck surgeon at the Kenyatta National Hospital, administering intravenous chemotherapy under general anaesthesia, with the abdominal aorta compressed with a sandbag placed on the patient’s abdomen and tightened with a tight belt like a tourniquet to avoid the drug reaching the flat bones where the bone marrow lies, and where the drug caused its maximum side-effects and resulted in dangerously low levels of red and white blood corpuscles. It seemed a primitive practice but certainly served its purpose. Coming back to the Children’s Ward: while I was treating Fidel with the help of my chemotherapist colleague, I constantly saw another patient, Ruth, a 7-year-old girl suffering from leukaemia, under the care of our haematologist, Prof Musila, a renowned authority on blood diseases. Ruth was, obviously, a darling of the nursing staff because she helped them with their chores. He had done a biopsy on her bone marrow, confirmed the diagnosis and was planning transplanting bone marrow taken from a suitable donor after he had cleared her affected bone marrow by giving Ruth a course of chemotherapy. One morning when I arrived in the ward to see Fidel, I saw the ward in a state of turmoil and the staff looked panic-stricken. I discovered that the cause  was Ruth, who had shot up a severe reaction to a bolus of chemotherapy cocktail which Prof Musila was injecting intravenously. Naturally, I joined the “Rescue and Recovery Team”.  assembled around Ruth. As a surgeon, I took charge of her pulse and heart. Just as well because I found the pulse slowing and eventually stopping. “Good God!” I shouted,“she has got a cardiac arrest.” Hearing this, Sister pressed the button to alert the cardiac arrest team to rush with the trolley carrying the essential drugs and equipment to set up an intravenous drip, defibrillator and electrodes to electrically stimulate the heart into action. While we were waiting for the “cardiac arrest team” to arrive, Sister administered oxygen to Ruth and I started external cardiac massage and got the heart working again. “Relax,” I said to Prof. Musila, knowing what he was undergoing  by a similar experience which I had in the theatre a few years back. It happened while I was removing a cancerous kidney and my anaesthetist suddenly announced that our patient had developed an arrest. The patient was already connected to an ECG machine, a routine precaution taken in every major operation. We saw the tracing first become irregular and then go flat. I stopped operating, as the anaesthetist stopped anaesthesia and put the patient on oxygen and tilted the table to lower the head so that the brain could get maximum blood. It was a blessing that the resuscitation trolley was in its usual corner with all the gadgets on it. Luckily, we did not need it because my external cardiac massage worked on that patient too. EMERGENCY While this was going on, I almost got a cardiac arrest myself and I am sure that my coronaries went into severe spasm and were left grossly clogged. I added as I addressed the harassed professor.” Relax, I can feel the pulse in the neck and the heart is beating normally.” After that terrible emergency, Ruth was treated with kid’s gloves by the nursing staff. One of the trainee nurses befriended her and visited her during her off-duty hours and provided company. Also, her parents were allowed to visit her at all hours of the day and night by the sister-in-charge. In time, Ruth was discharged home and when I asked Prof Musila what her prospects were he replied. ”With bone marrow transplant and newer drugs, she has a very good prognosis.” Fast forward 20 years. Our family foundation sponsored two nursing students every year and in return, the hospital appointed me to the “Selection Board”. For two scholarships, there were usually at least 10 candidates. The director for nursing education short-listed five, whom we needed to interview to pick the best two. As we were waiting for the third candidate, in walked someone with a familiar face. When my turn came to ask questions, I asked her.” “What motivated you to join the nursing profession?” While she was thinking of an appropriate reply, I added. “As you know, it is a calling and requires dedication and hard work.” “When I was a little girl, I suffered from leukaemia and was admitted to  hospital.” The coin dropped as she went on. “During the time I was in the children’s ward, I saw at first-hand – the selfless devotion of the staff, especially the nurses. I was inspired by their positive attitude and I decided that when I grew up, I wanted to be like them. I wanted to pay them the ultimate compliment.” VALUE OF MENTORSHIP At the sandwich lunch, while we were assessing the candidates we had interviewed that morning, Ruth got all the votes of the “Selection Board”, mainly because we all believed that she had the right motivation and she received our foundation bursary. We strongly believed in the value of mentorship for our alumni and I asked Ruth whether  she had a mentor in mind. “I have the nurse who helped me after I almost died of cardiac arrest while in the ward.” I correctly guessed it was the trainee nurse who had befriended Ruth and was now  sister-in-charge of the children’s ward. Five years later, Ruth had another pleasant surprise for me. I had an occasion to visit the children’s ward to see a patient and give a second opinion on her. Specialist paediatric surgeons had taken over children’s surgical management and head and neck surgeons took care of Burkitt’s Lymphoma cases, so my visit to the kid’s ward was very infrequent. I found Ruth there. Delighted to see her, I asked, “How did you end up in the ward where you were a patient yourself?” “That was the whole idea,” Ruth replied. Ruth. “So soon after I graduated, I worked in the adult wards for a year and then I specialised in paediatric nursing and waited until there was a vacancy in children’s ward. When one came up, I applied for, and got, the job of staff nurse.”   The two were always together and it could be this unbreakable, rocklike bond that has kept them disease free for the 10 years I have followed them