Perhaps you suffer because someone betrayed you. Perhaps you suffer because death robbed you of someone you love. Perhaps you suffer because your business is failing and you are deep in debt. Whatever the reason for your tribulations, remember the warning Jesus gave his disciples. We must be ready for even greater suffering. All these “little crosses” are meant to prepare us for the true cross — the one that comes when we are slandered on account of our faith. What could possibly happen that is worse than the misery you feel intensely here and now? You may even find it cruel to have someone use the phrase “little cross” to describe the death, betrayal or bankruptcy that you have suffered. When being crushed under the weight of that kind of pain, you probably find it hard to give any importance to something you have never experienced and think you will never experience. Let’s be honest. It seems unlikely that you will have to die to defend your faith in Christ. But Jesus himself spoke about this on many occasions when instructing his disciples: “Be prepared for people to hand you over to sanhedrins and scourge you in their synagogues... Brother will betray brother to death, and a father his child. Children will come forward against their parents and have them put to death.” MANY SPARROWS This prophecy is tempered with the promise that God is a Father who protects His children. “Can you not buy two sparrows for a penny? And yet not one falls to the ground without your Father knowing. Every hair on your head has been counted. So there is no need to be afraid; you are worth more than many sparrows.” That is not all. Amazingly, Jesus spoke of persecution itself as something we ought to look forward to: “Blessed are you when people hate you, drive you out, abuse you, denounce your name as criminal, on account of the Son of Man. Rejoice when that day comes and dance for joy, for your reward will be great in heaven.” VIOLENT PERSECUTION Our Lord’s words imply that we will be tested. There is no denying a simple fact: the history of the Church is a history of violent persecution. More Christians were martyred in the past 100 years than in all previous centuries combined. We need to take our Lord’s words seriously, because he spoke about this often. It is unlikely that anyone living in East Africa is going to suffer martyrdom any time soon. But you will have to suffer if you make up your mind to push corruption and immorality out of your life completely. jbabendreier@yahoo.co.uk   Whatever the reason for your tribulations, remember the warning Jesus gave his disciples.