AT ROYAL DAR ES SALAAM, MOROCCO A hole-in-one at the 17th saw Agil Is-Haq finish with an impressive three over par 75 for Kenya’s 14 shots improvement as the 2018 All Africa Junior Golf Championship entered its second day at the par 72 Royal Dar es Salaam Golf course on Wednesday. Is-Haq, who only missed seven fairways, hit a solid four-iron shot over the par three-202 for his first hole in one ever. "I played better today save for a few holes where I missed the greens. I am excited having the hole in one in such a long hole," said Is-Haq, who had earlier birdied the seventh hole. Of the other players, Daniel Kiragu shot 83 while Zubair Khan carded 84. It was a struggle for Kibugu Mutahi who ended with an 88 after a good start. At the end of the day, Kenya remained in fourth place with a two rounds score of 498, five shots adrift from Uganda who remained third this time with a two rounds aggregate of 493 gross. CLEAR SKY Meanwhile, defending champions South Africa, taking advantage of a clear weather, fired a total of 207 gross to remain at the top with an impressive 437. Steering the South Africans, whose team is completely new from the one that won the title at Royal Harare last year, was Germishuys Deon who made an eagle at the third hole, in addition to five birdies with a brave six under par 66 while Detzel Werner carded four under par 68 in a round that saw him roll in eight birdies but against four bogeys. The third contributor was Martin Vorster, who fired one over par 73. Hosts Morocco kept the fire on, chasing the champions with two impressive rounds of 71, 72 and 77 for the day’s 220 which gave them a total of 468 so far and a chance of finishing second which will see them join South Africa in Japan. Uganda posted 238 for the day for their 493. In the girls' section, the South African girls remained at the top after rounds of three over par 75 for each of the three players. Kenya closed the day in fifth place after rounds of 84 by Kellie Gachaga, 86 by the youngest player in the team Channelle Wangare while the going was though for Ashley Awuor who posted 93. A total of eight teams are battling it out for the girls' crown while the boys title attracted 13 countries. The championship, being held in Morocco for the first time, enters its third day Thursday.   Mutahi and Agil Is-Haq were on seven over in the first seven holes.