A woman whose right hand was chopped off by her estranged lover said they had a strained relationship. Ms Jane Wanjiku, 30, who is recuperating at the Nakuru Level Five Hospital, said her ex-lover also threatened her several times and she had reported the matter to the area chief and the police. SEPARATED “He was my boyfriend but after we separated he got married to another woman and we both moved on with our lives. “He resurfaced after two years and started threatening me,” she narrated from her hospital bed. Ms Wanjiku, who sells bracelets at Mai Mahiu shopping centre, further revealed that her ex-lover once called her and threatened to kill her if he ever found her with another man. A week ago, the man chopped off her right hand and left her with deep cuts in the head and left arm. ATTACK The mother of three recollected said that the first time he attacked her she was with a client. The man beat her up and left her nursing injuries, she said. This was followed by a series of attacks. “The attacks became so regular that whenever we met he beat me up no matter where we were, despite the fact that he was already married to another woman with whom he had a child. “I reported to the chief and the police and he was only locked up for a week. Then he was released,” she said. Ms Wanjiku then moved into a different house for fear of being attacked, but he continued stalking her. CHOPPED HAND In the latest incident, she had gone to collect wages from her employer’s home when her ex-lover attacked her at around 8 pm. “I met my employer in one of the petrol stations in Maai Mahiu Town but he did not have money with him. “I decided to accompany him to his home to collect the money. That is when he attacked me on,” said the distraught Ms Wanjiku. She said her ex-lover passed them on the way, but later emerged from a bush and attacked her employer using a panga, then turned on her. INJURED Ms Wanjiku and her employer were seriously injured and left unconscious. Police later arrived at the scene and rushed them to hospital. Ms Wanjiku’s employer is receiving treatment at the Kenyatta National Hospital. A traumatised Ms Wanjiku cried as she said she feared for the lives of her three children as she is their sole breadwinner. “I request well-wishers to help me get a prosthetic limb so that I can fend for my children,” she said.  