Substitute Gerishon Arabe scored the all-important goal to help Kisumu All Stars beat Bidco United in their National Super League (NSL) match at Moi Stadium in Kisumu on Wednesday. In other results, Kibera Black Stars stunned Western Stima 3-1 at Camp Toyoyo grounds to go top of the table. In the early kick-off at the same venue, Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) saw off debutantes Kangemi AllStars 2-1 before Ushuru and City Stars played out to a one-all draw. Black Stars are top on 13 points, three ahead of Stima after five rounds. Back to Kisumu, it was the first loss for Bidco United who were looking to stretch their unbeaten run to five matches but coach Leonard Saleh bemoaned poor officiating during the match. “There are a lot of questions that should be asked. The dark days of poor officiating in favour of home teams in the NSL are back because no extra time was awarded yet several minutes were wasted during the match,” he said. LITTLE ACTION The two goalkeepers had a field day in the early exchanges as there was little actions on both ends. Bidco goalkeeper Charles Okeyo made his first save in the 17th minute when he parried away Dismas Amunga's shot from close range. The hosts failed to capitalise on another scoring chance at the half-hour mark as Ian Samuel fired over the bar after connecting well with Shadrack Omondi. In the second half, All Stars coach Nick Aketch made three changes, bringing in Dennis Oalo, Arabe and Billy Agai for Samuel Ian, Calvince Omanga and Elvis Owili respectively. Saleh responded by introducing Heritier Luvualu and Antony Mbuthia for Vincent Waweru and Jacob Onyango. The changes proved fruitful for the hosts who looked more effective upfront creating a couple of scoring chances. Arabe wasted the best scoring chance in the 69th minute after his powerful shot hit the sidenetting. But a wrong decision from Bidco goalkeeper Okeyo to leave his line on 72nd minutes cost the visitors as Arabe gave his side the lead with an easy finish which turned to be the only goal of the match. “It is a good result for us because we changed our game in the second half. We were a bit sloppy in the first half but improved in the second,” said Aketch. AllStars visit FC Talanta while Bidco host Nakuru All Stars over the weekend. COLLATED RESULTS Green Commandoes 3-1 Modern Coast Rangers GFE 1-0 Nakuru AllStars Kenya Police 0-0 Isibania Nairobi Stima 3-0 Talanta St. Joseph Youth 3-3 Administration Police  