Kenya’s quest to recapture the 3,000 metres title at the IAAF World Indoor Championships in Birmingham remained alive Friday when Davis Kiplagat and Bethwell Birgen qualified for the final. However, Kenya’s medal hopes in men’s 800m were dealt a major blow when United States-based Emmanuel Korir failed to acquire his visa in time owing to systems failure at the British Embassy in New York. A day earlier, Kenya’s 2012 world indoor 3,000m champion Hellen Obiri faltered in her quest to reclaim he title, finishing fourth in the final where Ethiopian Genzebe Dibaba sealed her third consecutive victory in 8:45.05. Kiplagat, who is making his maiden World Indoor Championships, clocked seven minutes and 48.26 seconds to finish second behind Selemon Barega from Ethiopia. Barega, the world under-18s 5,000m and world under-18s 3,000m champion, timed 7:48.14 to win the heat. Birgen might have finished fifth in the first heat in 7:45.06 but the time was enough to rank him among the fastest losers. Defending champion Yomif Kejelcha from Ethiopia led compatriot Hagos Gebrhiwet in a 1-2 finish in the heat. Kejelcha clocked 7:42.83 while Gebrhiwet 7:43.55 as Ethiopia pushed three athletes into the final set for Sunday. Kiplagat and Birgen are out to recapture the title Caleb Mwangango win for Kenya last in 2014. Korir’s dream for his first major silverware proved a cropper again when he failed to get his visa on time. Korir, who was favourite to win men’s 800m race, failed to start his race yesterday when his lane five of the first heat that went down at 9.13pm (Kenyan time) was empty. Korir broke the news on his Facebook status posted at the New York City Centre saying… “Missing the World Indoor Championships tomorrow because of #systemisdown!!!?” “We must let go of the life we have planned, so as we accept the one that’s waiting for us,” explained Korir in his status. “When you work hard for your dreams some people don’t care but God is great. Isn’t the end of everything.” Korir, who had applied for his United Kingdom visa in New York, was due to make a return after flopping at the London World Championships last year despite going into the event as a hot favourite for the gold.   Obiri could only finish fourth this time around.