Three Tanzanians charged with trafficking heroin valued at Sh30 million have been remanded, pending a ruling on their bond application. Mr Hussein Maasoud Eid, Mr Othmani Hamisi Tinje and Mr Mwenda Hamisi will remain at Port Police Station. The three, who appeared at a Mombasa court, denied trafficking narcotics. They were accused of trafficking 10.022 kilogrammes of heroin concealed in a suitcase. CURRENCIES The prosecution said they were picked up from their rooms at Regency Park Hotel on March 16. Mr Eid is also charged with being in Kenya illegally. The court was told that during the arrest of the three, police found $6,100 and other cash in Malagasy, Tanzanian and United Arab Emirates currencies. State counsel Eugene Wangila opposed their release on bond, saying they were a flight risk. NETWORKS Through an affidavit sworn by inspector Jack Achilla of the Anti-Narcotics Unit, Mr Wangila said investigations were still on to establish the accused’s local and international networks. “In view of the multiple countries that we have to liaise with, we shall require more time to complete investigations,” he said. Mr Wangila also asked the court to take into consideration the fact that the accused were foreigners and the charges they faced were serious. SYNDICATES He said officers conducting investigations required more time since drug syndicates were complex. “Considering the complexity of the investigations and given the facts that these are foreigners whose stay in the country is not guaranteed, I ask the court not to free them on bail until the hearing and determination of the matter,” Mr Wangila said. NATIONAL SECURITY He also asked the court to compel the three to appear before Anti-Narcotics Police Unit detectives. The prosecutor asked the court to allow police to hold the Tanzanians’ travel documents. Mr Wangila said that drug menace at the Coast remained a threat to national security and the health of the youth “and anyone connected with trafficking should face full force of the law”. HEARSAY Defence lawyers Jared Magolo and Patrick Igunza said prosecution had not provided compelling reasons to deny the three bond. “What the prosecution has submitted is hearsay,” Mr Magolo said. The court will deliver a ruling on their bond on March 20.  