Champions Kenya Commercial Bank will take on Resolution Impala Saracens while Homeboyz battle Kabras Sugar in the semi-finals of the Kenya Cup rugby league next weekend. This is after Kabras Sugar and Impala Saracens staged superior displays, crushing their opponents on Saturday to storm the semi-finals. The 2016 champions Kabras Sugar sailed to their fourth consecutive semi-final when they thrashed visiting Strathmore Leos 43-13 at Kakamega Show grounds while the Sarries braved a thrilling first half exchange of leads to silence Quins 34-18 at Impala Sports Club. Kabras will now face Homeboyz in a repeat of last year's semi-final at the Jamhuri Park Show grounds where the sugar millers prevailed 23-18. TOPPED THE LEAGUE KCB topped the league unbeaten after they battled to a 9-9 draw with Impala in their last match while Homeboyz finished second. Impala Saracens will take on champions Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) in the other semi-final. The semi-finals are due on Saturday next week at the Jamhuri Park Show grounds and KCB Sports Club, Ruaraka respectively. Kabras led 24-10 at the break while Impala Saracens went for the drinks ahead 20-18. The Sarries touched down five tries, three conversions and a penalty to silence Quins who managed two tries, a conversion and two penalties. Samuel Motari landed a brace of tries while Mark Kwemoi, Paul Mutsami, Anthony Nyandigisi scored a try apiece to seal Impala's place in the semi-finals. Tony Mutai and Roxy Suchi scored for Quins with Lyle Asiligwa adding the extras. Motari drew first blood for Impala when he scored off a penalty but Kwemoi missed the conversion. Quins regrouped quickly to score a try before Asiligwa converted to the lead 7-5. Kwemoi was on the spot this time round with a penalty that gave Impala the lead again 8-7. It was a see-saw affair as Roxy Suchi landed for Quins to reclaim the lead 12-8. Kabras took control of the match to dominate in the forward play after a spirited first 10 minutes battle from the Leos. "It was a pretty well balanced match but we took our chances when we had them. The Leos had their share in the first 10 minutes but our forwards took control to set up a good stage for our backs," said Kabras Sugar coach Charles Cardovillis.  