The government has ruled out extension of deadline on directive requiring schools to paint buses yellow. It emerged that some schools are yet to comply with the directive. Education Principal Secretary Belio Kipsang said school administrators who will not have complied with the directive by Saturday, which is the deadline, should take their buses off the roads. “I want to clear this misunderstanding that only school buses are supposed to be painted yellow. All buses that will be used in transportation of students must be painted yellow,” he said. READ: Why all school buses will be yellow READ: Guidelines on repainting school buses yellow out MONEYDr Kipsang said also international schools are required to abide by the directive. “Those who will defy the directive should be ready to face the wrath of enforcement agencies,” he said, adding that about 90 per cent have complied. The PS, who spoke in Nairobi, called on schools to take advantage of the April vacation to paint their vehicles. In Kakamega County, some school head teachers have obeyed the directive while others are yet to do so, citing lack of money since some had acquired the buses on loans. “The idea is long overdue because the colour distinguishes institutional vehicles from other public vehicles and deters drivers from misusing the vehicles to ferry unauthorised goods and passengers. "Anybody seeing the bus will understand that the passengers on board are school children,” Cosmas Nabungolo, the principal of St Peters’ Boys High school in Mumias, said. CULTUREBut his counterpart from St Marthas Mwitoti Secondary School in Mumias East Sub-County faults the policy because it will compromise their identity. “Buses have been used as a marketing agency for schools and putting all buses under one colour jeopardises the corporate identity of each school,” Mr Chrispinus Owino argued. In Nyandarua County, the Nation established that majority of schools that have complied are private institutions. At Huruma Primary School in Ol Kalou, head teacher James Kiiru said the school bus will stay parked because there are no funds for repainting. “We have no money and we can’t ask the parents to meet the costs. We will have to park the bus until the government gives us the money. It will cost about Sh100,000,” he said. COMPLIANCEIn Nyahururu, Laikipia County, a spot check revealed that majority of schools have adhered to the order. In Coast region, most schools are yet to comply. In Tana River County where 13 schools own buses, only three have repainted them. The schools are Madogo Secondary, Ngao Girls High School and Garsen High School. There are 27 schools in the county. Tana River County Director of Education Gitonga Mbaka said many schools are faced with financial constraints. “The rest of the schools will comply because in the meantime they are addressing some financial problems,” Mr Mbaka said, adding those who have complied are spending between Sh324,000 to Sh384,000. Kwale Methodist Academy head teacher Victor Imbenzi said the school is yet to comply. Reports by Mohamed Ahmed, Stephen Oduor, Faith Nyamai, Kalume Kazungu, Fadhili Fredrick, Charles Lwanga , Lucy Mkanyika, Victor Raballa, Shaban Makokha, Francis Mureithi, Waikwa Maina and Steve Njuguna   In Tana River County where 13 schools own buses, only three have repainted them.