A 22-year-old man from Esikulu Village in Matayos Constituency, Busia County has died after a latrine he was repairing caved in, burying him. The man identified as Kenneth Okwero was repairing the latrine together with his two colleagues, when the ground suddenly moved and he fell into the pit. His workmates escaped death narrowly. The men had been hired by the owner, Mr John Ouma, to work on the latrine which had been damaged by heavy rains. Police officials who arrived at the scene moments after the incident happened said they suspected the heavy downpour may have weakened the foundation of the latrine. BODY RETRIEVED Wananchi and a team from county disaster management unit retrieved the body several hours after the horror incident happened. The victim’s mother, Ms Willimina Awory, described her son, the third born in the family, as a hardworking and obedient. “I had just returned from school when I was informed that Ken had sunk into the latrine he was working on,” she said. Assistant chief Stephen Ouma said the ongoing rains had damaged the foundation of structure to the extent that it was leaning backwards. “Yesterday (Tuesday), the owner of this home called the three to remove the slab on the roof which was destined to hold a water tank. Renovation works commenced today after heavy downpour could not allow them complete by yesterday. COLLAPSED “Unfortunately at around 10am the structure collapsed on one of the youth who was working from inside. The floor of the latrine and three sides of the walls also sank with the youth,” he said. It is suspected that initial poor workmanship led to the collapse of the latrine, according to the administrator. Mr Ouma said he sought the services of the three after the latrine started leaning backwards following the heavy downpour being experienced in the region. “I called them to rehabilitate the latrine which was in bad shape. I was not at home by the time the accident happened. I know all of them well. The one whom we have lost was the one who dug the latrine.” The body was taken Busia County Referral Funeral Home.  