I attended the Safaricom Jazz Festival on Sunday and witnessed a confrontation between a man and woman that left me nodding in approval of the man's actions and disturbed by the woman's nonchalance. Let me start from the beginning. My friends and I had been watching a beautiful young woman whose fashion sense can only be described as "nudist" with our mouths agape as we shook our heads in disapproval. To paint a mental picture, think Verah Sidika (body shape) and the picture a bra-less woman in a plunging bareback top and a pair of shorts that barely covered her behind. I’m not a prude but I had enough senses to acknowledge that it was a family event with impressionable children and that there were those, like the near-naked women, who either had no issues with nudity or had come to hunt for a different thing rather than for music. The married man (he was seated with his family, in case you are wondering how I made the conclusion) had also been clicking, shaking his head and pointing her out to his face. Not that he needed to, as all of us seated behind her could see her behind. I imagine that this is what he told his wife: “Look at the way that woman is dressed. Doesn’t she know that there are children here? Look at how her butt is hanging out…” I imagine these were his words because we were whispering the same things. “I should go and cover her with this Maasai shuka,” my friend jokingly suggested. DISDAIN TARGET This was right before the target of our disdain stood up to go and fetch a drink and her outfit and body parts came in full view of everyone, sparking the man’s ire and making him stand up to confront her. “What is wrong with you? Do you think we like seeing your butt hanging out? Why can’t you dress properly! Are you mad or something?” He was shouting now and gesturing wildly with his hands. Perhaps the bottle of whiskey he was taking made him say much more that he intended to because he suddenly belched and sat back down but not before receiving appreciative nods from us, his wife and the other members of the audience that were seated near them. To her credit, the girl simply batted her eye-lashes in an : “Excuse me but who the hell do you think you are?” fashion and proceeded to shake the butt in question as she gingerly made her way past the stares, over the Maasai shuka, over people’s feet to her vodka. She did not even miss a step. The man shook his head and poured himself another glass of whiskey, perhaps in acknowledgement that there were certain things in life that he simply could not change. The incident got me thinking about the number of times I have seen women at events in Nairobi dress like the missed the memo that the event was not going to be held at a nightclub in Westlands. Sure, nobody ever receives a memo on how to dress but whatever happened to common sense? Why come to an event where there will be children and people old enough to be your father or mother dressed like you are about to take a dip in the swimming pool? There is a line between sexy and slutty and some women have simply failed to see that line. Do you have feedback on this article? Please e-mail: lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com  