A section Coast leaders allied to Nasa on Sunday endorsed Deputy President William Ruto for the 2022 presidential race. Speaking during a fundraiser at St Barnabas Anglican Church in Voi, Taita Taveta County, they said there was no better candidate to lead Kenyans. CANDIDATE They are Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja, and MPs Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Jones Mlolwa (Voi), Ali Mbogo (Kisauni) and Danson Mwashako (Wundanyi). Ms Jumwa, who was a vocal critic of President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy Ruto, and who has been an opposition diehard, said the time for politicking had ended. “We cannot stop an idea whose time has come. In 2022 there is no other candidate for presidency other than the deputy president,” she said. Ms Jumwa said the Opposition would spearhead Jubilee’s big four agenda. UNITY She told off Nasa co-principals, saying they were trying to derail talks between President Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga. “If at all they were united then there is no need of them intimidating us against uniting with the government,” the MP said. She said political divisions would not bring development to citizens but would only further divide Kenyans on tribal lines. “What happened is water under the bridge. We must accept change and support our leaders who have decided to unite for the sake of the country,” she added. DEVELOPMENT Voi MP Jones Mlolwa said the Opposition’s ‘resist’ gospel ended when the President and Mr Odinga agreed to negotiate. “We are now speaking the same language which will eventually lead to a positive impact to the citizens,” he said, adding that it was time to unite and develop the country. Mr Mlolwa also urged the government to tackle the perennial water shortage, human-wildlife conflict and hunger problems in Taita Taveta County. Kisauni MP Ali Mbogo, who was representing the chairperson of the Coast Parliamentary Group Mr Suleiman Dori, said they had decided to unite for the sake of the nation. 2022 Mr Mbogo said Coast leaders would support Mr Ruto's political ambition. “Politics ended in 2017. What is remaining is unity among Kenyans. Without peace the Jubilee government will not achieve the big four agenda,” he said. The legislator urged supporters of President Kenyatta and Mr Odinga to back their agreement. “We have no option other than supporting our leaders who have decided to forget the past and work together,” he said. PACT Wundanyi MP Danson Mwashako, who was elected on the Wiper ticket, also backed the Uhuru-Raila pact. Governor Granton Samboja who was elected on the Wiper ticket said he had envisioned the pact and that was why he decided to back the government and vote in the repeat presidential election. The governor was heavily criticised for defying Nasa’s calls to boycott the October 26, 2017 repeat poll. “What is important now is to unite Kenyans and dwell fully on development,” he said. Mr Samboja also backed Ruto’s candidature for 2022. PROMISES Woman Representative Lydia Haika (Jubilee) said the Coast region would benefit from the Uhuru-Raila union. Ms Haika urged the government to fulfil its election promises such as solving the water problems in the county, and upgrading the Maungu-Kasigau and Bura-Mghange roads. Mr Ruto said the government was working to fulfil its promises. He said the president would soon commission the Sh30 billion Mzinyi Two water project to end perennial water problems in Taita-Taveta. He also lauded the Uhuru-Raila union, saying it was long overdue. BUILDING BRIDGES The DP said no region would be left behind by the government in terms of development. “Political and tribal divisions are of no importance to us now. What is important is ensuring that we deliver our agenda to Kenyans,” he said. “The era which bore division is gone and we have decided to build a bridge between Kenyans for us to improve their lives.” Other MPs at the function were Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Nixon Korir (Lang’ata), George Kariuki (Ndia) and Oscar Sudi (Kapseret).  