Mathare United moved to the summit of the Kenyan Premier League standings with a hard-fought 1-0 win over Chemelil Sugar at Kenyatta Stadium on Friday. Cliff Nyakeya was the hero for the Slum Boys after scoring the all-important goal on the stroke of half-time after slotting home from a well-timed Martin Ongori pass. Both sides created a handful chances in the match with the second half particularly a cagey affair between the two sides. Patrick Odhiambo’s Chemelil employed the long balls strategy but their forwards Philip Muchuma and Collins Neto were contained by Mathare defenders led by veteran skipper George Owino. Mathare were however dangerous on the break with Nyakeya and youngster John Mwangi troubling the visitors with their pace. Odhiambo criticised his opponents for "time wasting" but praised his charges despite the loss. "We played well but were bogged down by poor officiating. Our opponents slowed the game down and wasted time while the referee did nothing about it," Odhiambo said after the match. "We are going back home to plan for our next fixture (against Thika United) which we want to win." Mathare United assistant coach Salim Ali, who has been in charge in the absence of head coach Francis Kimanzi who was away with the national Under-23 team in Uzbekistan before returning to take charge of Thursday's training session, hailed the boys after the win. "It's an important win again. After a break of 10-day the momentum was hurt, it was a bit lost, slow but the most important thing is the win... We know Chemelil is a good team, they have won points here before," said Ali. On the team's impressive run this term compared to their struggles of last season, Ali said: "The best thing is continuity, when you have young players and you stay with them for some time you get continuity and we thank Mathare United for the time." "We take each match at a time, there is no pressure for us." Champions Gor Mahia could move back to the top of the standings with a win over debutants Vihiga United on Saturday in Kisumu.  