Congestion has been eased at the Likoni channel after one of the ferries that had broken down resumed operations. Hundreds of ferry users at the Likoni crossing were relived after MV Nyayo resumed operations on Tuesday evening. On Monday, Kenya Ferry Services (KFS) withdrew MV Jambo and MV Nyayo after the two vessels developed mechanical problems leading to a transport crisis at the channel. The channel was left with only three ferries in operation, MV Likoni, MV Harambee and MV Kilindini which catered for the hundreds of ferry users. MTONGWE CHANNEL The transport crisis was compounded after MV Jambo developed mechanical problems forcing the management to recall MV Likoni which operates at the Mtongwe channel. At least 15, 000 people use the Mtongwe crossing channel daily. More than 320,000 people and 6,000 vehicles use the Likoni channel daily. “MV Nyayo had some problems in the engine but that one has been sorted out. Engineers have been working on the ferries since Monday night and managed to restore it. It is now back on operation,” KFS Managing Director Bakari Gowa said. MISHANDLING He attributed MV Jambo’s problems to mishandling that led to the damage of its clutch. “We have already bought a clutch and other accessories from Turkey, we are now working on the ferry to make sure that it is restored,” he added. By 6pm Tuesday services at the busy channel resumed to near normal. Mr Gowa said traffic flow was good. INCONVINIENCES “There is no more waiting for longer hours, no more overcrowding, but we regret for inconveniences that occurred since yesterday. “The movement is good, there are no major queues and the irritated motorists and commuters who were delayed in the morning are now finding it easy crossing the channel. Services have improved with the return of the ferry,” he said. He condemned an incident where ferry users forced their way out of the waiting bay into the ferries after waiting for long hours. “I urge ferry users especially commuters to be patient. Follow instructions to ensure everyone using the ferry is safe; adhere to the procedures to ensure everyone is safe while using the facility,” he said. He said no major incidences or injuries were witnessed at the crossing. Mombasa County Commissioner Evans Achoki said enough police officers would be deployed at the channel crossing. “We will ensure that there is adequate security at the ferry. We also want to take this opportunity to caution ferry users that they should follow instructions given at the ferry. We will deploy more officers to ensure improved security for the ferry users,” Mr Achoki said.   Mv Likoni deployed to Likoni leaving Mtongwe commuters stranded.