A row has erupted between governors and the national government after the Treasury refused to increase allocation for maintenance of roads in counties. The governors now want the Senate to reject the Division of Revenue Bill over failure to raise the allocation from 15 to 20 per cent of the Road Maintenance Fuel Levy Fund. According to the Division of Revenue Bill 2018 passed by the National Assembly, devolved units will receive Sh8.3 billion, which is 15 per cent of the levy fund. “This allocation is meant to further enhance county governments’ capacity to repair and maintain county roads and is equivalent to 15 per cent of the Road Maintenance Fuel Levy Fund,” the Bill indicates.The Bill has been passed by the National Assembly and forwarded to the Senate for approval. ALLOCATION SHARED According to Council of Governors (CoG) chairman Josephat Nanok, the increment to 20 per cent was agreed on at a meeting of the Intergovernmental Budget and Economic Council chaired by Deputy President William Ruto. “This should have been factored in the Division of Revenue Bill,” said Mr Nanok, the Turkana Governor. During the meeting, the Ministry of Infrastructure was tasked with carrying out consultations with CoG on how the allocation would be shared out among counties. The CoG boss says the bill awaiting Senate approval breaches the agreement arrived at at the forum. APPENDED SIGNATURES “This agreement had been negotiated in good faith by all parties, who deliberately consulted extensively with all key stakeholders and, acknowledging the inter-dependence of both levels of government, had wilfully appended their signatures,” he said on Tuesday in a press statement. Mr Nanok said that the proposed increase was meant to take care of the rising cost of road maintenance in the counties. On classification of roads, he accused MPs of disregarding the proposed amendments by CoG on the Roads Bill 2017 and going ahead to reclassify county roads, placing them under the national government.   County bosses want national government to relinquish control of roads in their regions.