Only 10 out of 27 public teachers’ colleges attained more than 50 per cent pass rate in Knec exams, revealing a worrying trend in the education sector. Teachers Service Commission CEO Nancy Macharia urged principals to work extra hard to improve their schools’ performance. RESITS “Most colleges registered a high number of referrals, meaning that students have to resit examinations and could not graduate,” she said. In a speech read on her behalf by TSC Senior Deputy Director in charge of Teachers management Abdirizak Farah, the CEO outlined a raft of measures that lecturers should implement to boost leaners’ grades. He made the remarks during the 90th graduation ceremony of Kamwenja Teachers’ College in Nyeri. GRADES Last year, a similar analysis on the learners’ performance revealed mass failure in the examinations, which means a smaller number of teachers graduated. Ms Macharia said the colleges recorded a high number of referrals in the 2017 examinations but did not disclose the figures. Those who failed the exams will have to wait until the end of the year to resit the papers. Students who join teachers’ colleges are required to have scored grade C (plain) and above, and annually more than 20,000 students graduate from both private and public teachers’ colleges. The TSC boss urged colleges to comprehensively cover the syllabus during the first and second year while counselling students to develop a positive attitude towards the subjects. “Organise in-house workshop and symposiums for lectures and students to share information and experience, giving students frequent exams and revising with them to ensure they master the subjects,” she said. PROFESSIONALISM The commission has also asked colleges to be strict during admission of new students and ensure they bring the required books and materials. She urged the schools to organise symposiums for teachers and leaners to interact and share experiences. Ms Macharia urged graduates to uphold professionalism and integrity. “I encourage the graduates to uphold integrity, self-respect, honesty and passion to become great teachers,” she said. Ms Macharia reassured graduates of jobs in the education sector and urged them to register with TSC.  