The Deputy President William Ruto on Friday said the government will set up schools along volatile borders in the North Rift in a bid to foster peace among communities fighting against each other. Speaking when he laid the foundation stone for Katikomor Primary School, one of the schools, located along the West-Pokot and Trans Nzoia border, he said the learning institutions will help children interact and embrace each other early in life. “It’s only through education that we shall end cattle rustling that has been hindering us. We need to allow our children to integrate and embrace each other,” he said. He asked governors in the region to set aside land for the construction of the schools. He said the schools will be set up along the Pokot-Turkana border, Pokot-Marakwet, Turkana- Baringo and Baringo-Samburu borders. The DP thanked the county government for setting aside Sh20 million to construct the school adding that the government will add another Sh20 million for the construction. He asked government officers in the region to distance themselves from fuelling conflicts or they resign. “Government  officers are required to keep peace and not to incite residents to conflict,” he said. The DP also asked politicians to put their political differences aside and focus on delivering services to Kenyans. He said the Jubilee government had decided to work with all leaders to ensure the country developed. “We are done with politics let’s now focus on delivering services to the over 45 millions Kenyans in the country,” he said. Mr Ruto also presided over the first graduation ceremony at Chesta Teachers College in West Pokot. He was accompanied by area leaders, Governors John Lonyangapuo (West Pokot), Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet), Education CAS Simon Kachapin, MPs David Pkossing (Pokot South) , Mark Lomunakol ( Kacheliba), Samuel Moroto ( Kapenguria), Peter Lochakapong (Sigor),  West Pokot woman representative Lilian Tomitom and a delegation from Uganda led by Bukwo MP Ruben Chelimo. Prof Lonyangapuo said his administration had decided to invest in education to help address many challenges facing the county. “It is only through education that we can transform this county for the better,” he said.   Schools along volatile borders in the North Rift to foster peace among communities.