Kenyan Premier League top scorer Erick Kapaito missed a penalty as Kariobangi Sharks lost 1-0 to Ulinzi Stars at the Camp Toyoyo grounds in Nairobi on Saturday. January signing Masita Masuta scored the lone goal of the match in the 67th minute, to ensure his team rose to sixth on the standings.   In an earlier match played at the same venue, Posta Rangers notched their second win of the season after hammering winless Thika United 3-1. Winger Kennedy Otieno returned to haunt his former employers, after scoring a brace in the match to help Rangers come from behind to win the match. Otieno struck in the 42nd and 56th minutes of the game, to turn the game on its head after captain Dennis Odhiambo had put Thika in front with a seventh minute goal. Former Chemelil Sugar forward Gearson Likonoh complemented Otieno’s efforts as the postmen carried home maximum points. “I feel good, although I didn’t expect that I would score two goals. I knew that we would win today because we had prepared very well and our coach had already identified their (Thika’s) weaknesses, but scoring the brace has come as a surprise for me. I hope for more such games in future,” Otieno said after the match. At the Sudi Stadium in Bungoma, Festus Okiring scored in the 26th minute to lift Nzoia Sugar to a 1-0 win over Sony Sugar. Okiring came through with the outstanding moment of the match when he beat Sony custodian Kelvin Omondi with a screaming shot taken from the edge of the box. In Ruaraka, besieged Nakumatt succumbed to a 2-0 loss to 2009 champions Sofapaka to record their fifth loss of the season. Eugene Ambulwa turned the ball into his own net, while Sofapaka goalkeeper Mathias Kigonya successfully converted a penalty in the first half to condemn the retailers to yet another defeat. And at the Bukhungu Stadium, Kakamega Homeboyz collected maximum points after beating Bandari 1-0 thanks to Wycliffe Opondo's goal.   Results: Posta Rangers 3-1 Thika United Kariobangi Sharks 0-1 Ulinzi Stars Kakamega Homeboyz 1-0 Bandari Gor Mahia 1-0 Vihiga United Nzoia Sugar 1-0 Sony Sugar Nakumatt 0-2 Sofapaka Reports by Cellestine Olilo and Titus Maero   Mathare had stormed into the summit of the standings on Friday.