Senior private Edwin Okong’o may not be the most experienced pugilist in the 11-man Kenya boxing national team popularly known as “Hit Squad”, but the Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) soldier has set his sights on glory in Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, Australia, next month. Okong’o, who was introduced to the game by the most experienced fighter in Kenya’s squad to Gold Coast, his cousin Nick Okoth, is in a mission to clinch his first ever Commonwealth Games silverware. The 27-year-old Kenya Air Force soldier who wound up his training sessions at the Nakuru Amateur Boxing Club, popularly known as Madison Square Garden Gymnasium, on Saturday morning of returning home with a medal. “I have what it takes to bring home a medal if the training I have undergone with coaches Patrick Maina, Patrick “Mont” Waweru, Sammy Magima and trainer John Waweru is anything to go by. I’m confident of pushing myself to the medal bracket,” said Okong’o. Okong’o said the inaugural Indian international tournament held last month helped him improve on his ring movement. “I am visibly mobile in the ring, unlike before when I was stuck in one place and on top of that I have perfected my punching power,” said Okong’o. He said his trip to India came at the right time and although he did not win a fight, he learnt a lot of defensive tactics which he hopes to make good use of in Gold Coast. “I had a problem with my defensive style but when I went to India I learnt a lot and come Gold Coast, I know how to mount a strong defence,” said Okong’o. Okong’o who dominated the Kenya Boxing National League, winning in four legs before losing the controversial fifth leg in Mombasa, says his last defeat was a blessing in disguise. “After I lost in the fifth leg, I worked hard and this helped me clinch a place in national team during the final selection at Kaloleni Social Hall in Nairobi,” says Okong’o, who is a former student at St Teresa’s Boys Secondary School in Nairobi. Okong’o, who is a former East Africa Inter–Cities welter weight champion, started boxing 2009 after abandoning basketball. “I was a basketball player and I thank my cousin Nick Okoth who saw boxing potential in me and pushed me to climb the ring. Today, I have no regrets but to thank him,” said Okong’o who started training at St Teresa’s gymnasium in Nairobi under veteran coach Musa Benjamin. “I owe a lot of my success to coach Musa Benjamin who believed in me and kept took me through vigorous training and impacted critical boxing tips which I use to vanquish my opponents in the ring,” said Okong’o. He says his role models include former Kenya international boxer Absalom “Diblo” Okinyi and his cousin Okoth. “These two boxers have shaped my career and should I win any medal in Gold Coast, I will dedicate the win to them as they have given me more encouragement and technical support,” he says. “Nick is hard-hitter and trains hard and I envy him in the ring while Okinyi is a ring scientist. I borrowed his punching style which I often apply in the ring during championships,” says Okong’o, who is the first-born in a family of three boys and one girl. He says his parents - Shadrack Okong’o and Gladys Owuor - were initially hesitant to support his boxing passion but after he represented Kenya in a championship in Uganda, they changed their minds and started supporting him. “Today, my dad and mum are my greatest supporters and every time I climb the ring for a local or international match, they usually take keen interest and they pray for my success.”  