In an article three weeks ago, I urged the State to protect and replenish our forests before it was too late. In it, I predicted that it was highly likely that the Kenya Forest Service (KFS) needed a complete overhaul. This was on the basis that KFS, the statutory body mandated to manage and preserve our forests, did not raise a red flag regarding the state of affairs in the water towers, especially the Mau. Instead, it was the manifestation of disappearing rivers and trees, biting drought and looming famine that caught the attention of the affected people, the media, conservationists and politicians. The KFS maintained a ‘there is nothing going on here’ attitude. In other words, the officers sat pretty as our forests disappeared before our very eyes. SHAMBA SYSTEM Following the gazettement of a task force to interrogate the issue and recommend a remedy to it, Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko suspended some KFS top managers. Tobiko accused KFS of making him believe that licences issued to members of the community forest associations to practise the ‘shamba’ system within government forest land were bound by conditions. The CS also said he was flummoxed that the KFS did not impose any condition on loggers, such as replenishing forest plots after harvesting trees. Soon after, certain MPs were up in arms against Tobiko. They alleged that due process was not followed and cautioned him about being high-handed. But it soon emerged that the complainants hailed from the same community or region as the persons who had been suspended. Perhaps they were remaining true to their mandate of representing ‘their people’. COLLECT TREES Later, the Association of Timber Manufacturers, after meeting the Parliamentary Committee on the Environment, called a press conference demanding that Tobiko reinstate the officers, ostensibly because due process was not followed. Moreover, they urged the government to allow them to go back into the forests to collect the trees that they had felled — regardless of a three-month ban ordered by the Deputy President. They were concerned that there was no tree planting going on because KFS staff were ‘dehumanised’. This I find very peculiar. How is it that timber manufacturers, the people who have been obtaining harvesting licenses from the KFS, are much endeared to the suspended KFS officers? It seems like, at least according to timber manufactures, there was no discernible problem in how the suspended officers managed forests. To them, everything has been running smoothly and there was no crisis to speak of; our forests are well and good. LOGISTICAL NIGHTMARE Before the dust settled, Environment Principal Secretary Charles Sunkuli announced that the ministry plans to install CCTV cameras and deploy drones to monitor and prevent deforestation. On this, perhaps the ministry should wait for the task force to conclude its mandate and render its recommendations. Besides the obvious logistical nightmare of doing surveillance on hundreds of thousands of hectares of forest, the effectiveness of cameras and drones depends on the competence and resolve of those hired to observe what they are recording. It is not lost on many Kenyans that the cameras installed within the CBD and major roads around Nairobi and Mombasa have not paid dividends in terms of crime prevention and solving. I would implore the ministry to think bigger and smarter. They should, perhaps, think of utilising technology such as satellite imaging and geospatial technology or geographic information systems (GIS) for monitoring, supporting analysis, assessment and management of our forests. SPECIFIC SPOTS Such systems are flexible and can cover a large area and zoom into specific spots while at it. This presents a means of accurate land cover and change analysis, making management, planning and inventory mapping easier and achievable. I will leave the cost analysis of drones and CCTV versus satellite technology to the experts. Even the floods being witnessed in many parts of the country are directly linked to wanton destruction of forest cover. Mother Nature does care about our tribe or political affiliation or greed. That is why we must care about the environment — because, when things go haywire, Mother Nature is indifferent to our existence. Mr Kiprono is senior legal officer, Article 19 - Eastern Africa. demaslaw@gmail.com Twitter: @kipdemas  