The release of marked answer sheets of national exams to schools will prejudice security features, the Kenya National Examinations Council (Knec) has said. Responding in a case in where activist Okiya Omtatah moved to court seeking to have Knec compelled to release marked answer sheets, acting CEO Mercy Karogo opposed such a move. While responding to the case, Karogo said that after national examination results have been released, schools usually receive feedback to serve as a guide for preparations in future exams. “Knec wishes to caution that any directive to release marking schemes or marked answer scripts will compromise the security of national examinations,” said Ms Karago. RESULTS CREDIBLE In papers filed in court, she explained that all procedures for the test development, administration, marking, processing, awarding and grade setting were duly followed in the 2017 national examinations hence the results released were credible. “The council wishes to categorically state that the 2017 examinations and subsequent investigations were conducted objectively, fairly (and) in compliance with all laws and regulations, without malice or ulterior motive against any candidate,” she said. While Knec wants the case dismissed, Mr Omtatah argues that failure to release answer sheets for both primary and secondary national examinations is a violation of a fundamental right. RIGHT TO ACCESS PAPERS According to Mr Omtatah, it has been the tradition for Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) and Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) exams answer sheets to be kept by KNEC, yet those who sit those national examinations have every right to access the marked papers. He said that teachers have a right to access the answer sheets in order to gauge their performance, facilitate school-based auditing of results with a view to improving them. He also argued that releasing the answer sheets would ensure validity, reliability and accuracy of marks allocated as well as eliminate anomalies such as the possibility of wrong results being awarded. He also alleged that failure to release the marked answer sheets is arbitrary and leaves the marking shrouded in secrecy which amounts to denying those who sit KCPE and KCSE examinations a fair hearing. He filed the suit following reports of some schools receiving wrong results.  