COLOMBO Opener Shikhar Dhawan hit his second successive Twenty20 half-century to help India thrash Bangladesh by six wickets and register their first win in the tri-nation tournament on Thursday. Chasing 140 for victory, India rode on Dhawan's 43-ball 55 to achieve their target with eight balls to spare at Colombo's R Premadasa Stadium. India, who won the toss and opted to bowl, gained the upper hand after pacemen Jaydev Unadkat and Vijay Shankar shared five wickets between them to restrict Bangladesh to 139-8. "I think it was a great performance, something that was expected from us. Right from the start to the end, it was clinical and a complete team effort," India skipper Rohit Sharma said after the win. "Bowlers executed plans very well. We kept it simple and got the basics right, which was missing in the first game." Dhawan, whose 90 went in vain in India's opening loss against hosts Sri Lanka on Tuesday, then made sure that his side cruise home, despite initially slumping to 40-2. Sharma faltered in his second successive outing after chopping a delivery onto his stumps from left-arm paceman Mustafizur Rahman. He made 17. Dhawan, hitting 5 fours and 2 sixes en route to his sixth T20 fifty, and Suresh Raina, who made 28, put on a crucial 68-run third-wicket stand. Dhawan finally fell to Taskin Ahmed's right-arm medium pace in the 17th over but Manish Pandey, 27 not out, carried the team home. Earlier Bangladesh's batting faltered with only Liton Das, who top-scored with 34 and Sabbir Rahman, who hit 30 off 26 balls, giving some respectability to the total. Unadkat claimed three wickets with his left-arm pace while Shankar, who took his first international wicket in Mushfiqur Rahim, returned figures of 2-32. "We didn't bat well. We should have scored 30 more runs. We need to find out how to get runs on these kind of wickets," said Bangladesh captain Mahmudullah. "One win will boost us and will reflect in our game. Hopefully we'll get it." Bangladesh will next take on Sri Lanka in the third match of the tournament, which is timed to commemorate the host island's 70 years of independence, on Saturday.  