Kibera Black Stars head coach Godfrey Oduor has warned his charges against dropping points again as they take on Kenya Police in the National Super League at Camp Toyoyo grounds on Saturday. Black Stars, who lead the NSL standings, lost 1-0 to Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) last weekend and will be out to bounce back when they confront the unbeaten Kenya Police, who are two points behind them. “We want to recover from the setback by going for a win in the game. Police are a tough side if their current form is anything to go by but we will respect them and give our level best in the match,” Oduor told Nation Sport. Black Stars will miss the services of the injured midfield duo of Esan “Essien” Karani and John Katwa but Kenyan international winger Patrick Oboya is set to return. “Oboya is a motivational figure in camp and his presence is a huge boost to the lads ahead of the match. The team wants to finish business in 90 minutes and go top of the table irrespective of other results,” Police coach Charles “Korea” Omondi said. “Our secret is simple, play attacking football from the word go plus a compact defence line. They (Black Stars) could be a difficult opponent but we will take it as any other tie.” KCB IN NAKURU St. Joseph’s Youth, another unbeaten side after six rounds, host John Kamau’s KCB in Nakuru. Elsewhere, Kangemi AllStars will miss the services of suspended striker Roosevelt Blaty against Nairobi City Stars on Sunday. The former Bandari and Ushuru man is serving the first of his three-match ban following his red card in their 3-0 loss to Kenya Police last weekend. FIXTURES Saturday Bidco United v Administration Police (Thika Stadium, 12pm) Nairobi Stima v Modern Coast Rangers (Camp Toyoyo grounds, 12pm) St. Joseph’s Youth v KCB (Afraha Stadium) Golden Field Evangelism (GFE) 105 v Western Stima (Sudi Stadium, 12pm) Coast Stima v Ushuru (Mbaraki Sports Club) Kibera Black Stars v Kenya Police (Camp Toyoyo grounds, 2pm) Sunday Green Commandoes v Isibania (Bukhungu Stadium, 3pm) City Stars v Kangemi AllStars (Camp Toyoyo grounds, 11am) Kisumu AllStars v Nakuru AllStars (Moi Stadium, Kisumu)  