The greatest mandate for Christians is to spread the Gospel and touch lives through sharing the love of Christ. A small group of born again youthful musicians in the heart of Kibera slum is fulfilling this mandate through Christian reggae music. They are better known as TuneDem Band and have gained popularity for their energy-packed gospel jam sessions both in churches and outdoor concerts. On March 25, the band will be celebrating its 10-year anniversary with five albums under their belt and a fruitful outreach ministry at the Kenya National Theatre. “We had a rough start. The concept of Gospel Reggae music was still very new in so we got turned down many times when we sought to perform in churches. I remember approaching a certain pastor once hoping to get an invitation for the band to perform. He looked at me quizzically and asked; ‘Reggae? And you guys are from Kibera?’ We were turned down instantly. I realised at that point that it was not just the genre of music that was working against us but also where we came from,” says Charles Kepha, the band leader. Despite the initial setbacks, the band remained undeterred in their purpose of using music to preach. At the beginning, the band had twelve members, just like the disciples of Jesus. It comprised of self-taught instrumentalists and singers whose greatest asset was talent and passion for music.  Their choice of performing reggae songs exclusively was heavily influenced by Kepha’s love for the genre. LOVED REGGAE MUSIC “Growing up, I loved reggae music. Lucky Dube and Bob Marley’s songs were practically the soundtrack of my childhood. Then in 2003, I got born again while attending a camp organised by a faith-based organisation is Kibera called Youngsters for Christ Team (YCT). My love for reggae music didn’t end with getting saved. Instead, it evolved with my spirituality and I began composing Reggae Gospel tunes. All through high school, I composed and performed my own reggae gospel songs. I joined YCT and was made the praise and worship leader. My new role encouraged me to not only sing more professionally nut also exposed me to music instruments. I was drawn by the drum set and in no time became a pretty good drummer. My friends started taking interest in the instruments and I was able to train two drummers. Some learnt the piano and others the guitar. That’s when the idea of starting the band struck me. Here we were, a group of 12 friends and I had a number of composed songs so why not?” narrates Kepha. FORMED IN 2007 In 2007, TuneDem Band was formed. In addition to Kepha’s songs, the band also performed covers of renowned reggae songs. It was in 2008 however that they officially launched the band in a mega concert at Kamukunji grounds in Kibera. The grounds are centrally placed and this resulted in a massive turnout to the event. The audience loved the music, the young and old alike jamming to the refreshing tunes of gospel reggae music. Seeing the audience dance and sing along fanned the passion and resolve of the band to keep reaching out and spreading the love of Christ through music. The band recorded its first album in 2011. For three straight years, they had been giving dazzling performances at various events and even gotten the church to accommodate the new genre all the while never having seen the inside of a recording studio. They got most of their invitations through word of mouth. NO ALBUMS TO SELL Despite how much their fans enjoyed the music, the band had no albums to sell. In turn, they made no money off their music. They were solely driven by raw passion and commitment to the cause of giving hope to the community whose population was predominantly poor and riddled with alcoholism, crime, drug and substance abuse as well as diseases. Their songs inspired hope for a better tomorrow. They promoted behaviour change by campaigning against crime and drug abuse. Through songs such as Seasons and Reasons, they challenged the community members to keep striving and to never give up. When you think you have reached the end, It’s never yet the end, It’s time to make up your mind, And start all over again, “Financial constraints was the main reason why we never recorded our music. In 2011, we bumped into Taji Music production studio and since it was just starting out, we were able to negotiate a really fair deal. The producer took a chance on us, and we remain eternally grateful. By God’s grace, we have recorded five albums now including a collabo with Wayne Stoddat from Jamaica. We have also partnered with Christafari from the USA in spreading the gospel through reggae music,” inserts Shoeshine, a band member and gifted song composer. In 2014, TuneDem Band started Share the Love initiative to reach out to inmates in various prisons within Nairobi. Through life-skills workshops and concerts, the band has had a positive impact on the lives of prisoners from Kamiti Maximum Prison, Industrial Remand Prison and the Youth Correction and Training Centre (YCTC). “Friends and people of goodwill chip in to ensure we have a proper set up for the stage during the prison concerts. We engage inmates and give them an opportunity to perform their own compositions. They are so talented.  Growing up in Mukuru-kaiba, I saw people getting locked up all the time. When my dad passed away in 2006, I saw my mother struggle to feed my younger siblings and I. in a bid to fend for myself and relieve my mother who was then hawking commodities in the streets, I got caught up in mischief several times. I was imprisoned a couple of times too. Experiencing all that makes me specially attached to the prison outreach ministry. To give them hope and encourage them to abandon crime. I was saved by grace and I feel the need to extend the same message of love and grace to the inmates,” Shoeshine says. Although the band is made up of seven active members, those are just the ones who get up on stage and perform. The entire band is a whole battalion of tens of passionate youths who are committed to transforming the lives of its community members and beyond through uplifting and transforming reggae tunes. As they mark ten years of great ministry, they hope to grow the band and have an even greater impact in the society.     They are better known as TuneDem Band and have gained popularity for their energy-packed gospel jam sessions both in churches and outdoor concerts.