New Zealand national Ian Snook was on Monday appointed Kenya Simbas head coach for two years. Snook, who brings with him a vast wealth experience, has coached professionally for the past 33 years in New Zealand, South Africa, Australia, England, Ireland, Japan, Croatia and Italy. Snook, who handled Manawatu in New Zealand in 1993 and 1994, will be assisted by his countryman Murray Roulston, who has previously served on the coaching staff of Super Rugby side Highlanders. Roulston also served in various coaching and consulting capacities in New Zealand, Japan, Trinidad & Tobago and Romania. Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) chairman Richard Omwela said that the government will help them foot the salaries for the two tacticians for two years. Snook and Roulston’s immediate assignment is to help Kenya Simbas qualify for the 2019 Japan World Cup. Omwela said that the duo are expected in the country in two weeks’ time. “It’s a short notice for them but they need to come now so as to explore our structures and opponents and tell us what we need to qualify for Japan," Omwela said on Monday. He explained that they are currently working with the technical team of Dominique Habimana, Charles Ngovi, Richard Ochieng, Chris Makachia and Simiyu Wangila on their conditioning program. Snook replaces Jerome Paarwater, who was fired in December 2017 , having handled the team since 2012. Paawater almost guided the Simbas to the 2015 Rugby World Cup, where the team failed to advance on superior aggregate. Namibia got the nod during the 2014 qualifiers, alongside automatic qualifiers South Africa. Kenya Simbas’ journey to the 2019 Japan World Cup starts against Morocco in Rugby Africa Gold Cup clash that will double up as the qualifier on June 23 this year in Casablanca, Morocco. The Simbas will host Zimbabwe in Nairobi on June 30 before again hosting neighbors Uganda on July 7. The championship will take a four-week break occasioned by the Rugby World Cup Sevens taking place from July 20-22 in San Francisco, USA. The chase for continental supremacy will resume on August 11 when the Simbas host Tunisia in Nairobi but their away clash against Rugby Africa Gold Cup defending champions Namibia on August 11 will perhaps decide the winner and Africa’s second representative to the 2019 World Cup after South Africa. Rugby Africa Gold Cup/ 2019 World Cup qualifier fixtures Kenya v Morocco-June 23 (Away) Kenya v Zimbabwe -June 30 (Home) Kenya v Uganda -July 7 (Home) Kenya v Tunisia -August 11 (Home)  