It is a respiratory disease that affects rabbits. It is caused by a mixture of bacterial infections but the most dominant is Pasteurella multocida. The disease is highly contagious and can be fatal if not diagnosed and treated early. It is a common disease and almost every rabbit farmer must have experienced it at some point. The disease occurs mostly when the rabbit is stressed or has a suppressed immune system. A rabbit with snuffles will show the following symptoms: §  Running nose with white mucoid discharge. §  Teary eyes. §  Sneezing. §  Mucus on the forelimbs as the rabbit keeps wiping it off the nose. §  Conjunctivitis. §  Twisted neck/head tilt caused by ear infection. §  Circling/disorientation. §  In severe cases, abscess will form under the skin, in joints and other organs.  The mild symptoms of this disease may be confused with those caused by: §  Ear infections caused by parasites E. Cuniculi and mites or bacterial. §  Dental problems. §  Poor ventilated hutches.  Treatment Call your vet to prescribe the best antibiotic for your rabbit or contact us for treatment. If the rabbit had developed abscesses under the skin; these are caused by the animal’s body trying to wall-off the infection. The vet will have to remove the abscesses surgically as they are too thick to be squeezed out. In cases where the infection persisted to the ears and caused a head tilt and other nervous signs, the vet will examine and check if there are any abscesses in the ear drum of the rabbit and the drain and flush the ear then give the required antibiotics. A rabbit with a head tilt should be taken to a vet immediately as early treatment increases chances of recovery. The rabbits will be stressed, so give them Stressmix in their drinking water to minimise stress and to boost appetite. Sometimes the antibiotic prescribed may tamper with normal flora in the rabbits GIT, so you may supplement your rabbit with a probiotic to restore the normal flora in the rabbits gut. Always isolate a rabbit with snuffles from the rest to avoid spread of the disease since it is highly contagious.  Prevention Rabbit breeders need to take special precautions, including strict sanitation and quarantine procedures.  All visitors should have their cars and shoes disinfected at the entrance of the farm. Everyone should wash their hands with a disinfectant and wear protective clothing - a dust coat and gumboots before they enter into the rabbit house. There should be a footbath at the entrance of every rabbit house that all visitors should dip their foot wear. All farmers should disinfect their hands, shoes and clothing especially after being in direct contact with other livestock and family pets. Always select healthy rabbits when purchasing, make sure that they are free of all signs of infection, including a runny nose. Reducing stress is also important in helping a rabbit avoid infections. Common causes of stress in rabbits include poor nutrition, improper housing, chilling, overcrowding or aggression from other rabbits. To prevent stress, provide the best possible housing; offer a variety of fresh vegetables and free choice hay in addition to a properly formulated pelleted diet. Also, avoid letting your rabbits come into contact with others, particularly if they are sick. Disinfect the rabbit hutches regularly to avoid contamination and infection. Consult your vet for the best disinfectant to use. Snuffles is a disease that can have devastating consequences to rabbits. Because it is so contagious and widespread, farmers need to be aware of its signs and seek veterinary attention at the first sign of illness. By understanding the disease and taking precautions against it, rabbit owners can help reduce both the severity and incidence of this disease.   Justin Magiri keeps over 200 rabbits and has sold close to 900 animals in a rewarding business which he started with three animals.