Security chiefs in Mathira Constituency, Nyeri County, have banned boda operators from working past 11pm to curb crime. Speaking after a security meeting between senior security officers from Mathira East and Mathira West sub-counties, police noted that criminals had infiltrated the boda boda business. SECURITY Mathira West Deputy County Commissioner Charles Munari said allowing boda bodas to operate past midnight was contributing to crime. “We are not victimising boda boda operators. But we want to clearly give an order that after 11pm they have no business idling in Karatina Town or any other market,” he said. Area MP Rigathi Gachagua, who attended the meeting, supported the directive. He urged security officers to flush out gangs that have been terrorising residents. “People committing crime will be dealt with ruthlessly. We do not want to see a situation where residents have to close their businesses early because they are worried about their safety,” he said. CRIME Mr Gachagua said criminals in the area are not outsiders but locals. He said that if any of his supporters are found committing crimes they will not be spared. Mathira East Deputy County Commissioner Pius Murugu said they had stepped up patrols and surveillance following the wave of crime in the area. Robbers mainly attack businessmen in their homes, he said. “It will not be business as usual. Security patrols will be heightened so that the public can feel our presence on the ground and robbers arrested. “The community is complaining that the constituency has so many licensed bars. We request the county to minimise [the number of] these bars because some are operating nearly 24 hours and criminals hide there,” Mr Murugu said. NYUMBA KUMI Officers were accused of colluding with criminals and giving them important information. Mr Murugu said disciplinary action is already being taken against officers working with criminals. The police bosses also announced that they would revive the Nyumba Kumi Initiative and Community Policing to improve security. “In some places the initiative is not active yet they are very important. We cannot be everywhere but with community policing we are able to discuss issues and give vital information,” he said. The leaders urged residents to cooperate with the police and volunteer information on suspicious people. This could lead to the arrest of robbers, they said. Mr Murugu also urged residents to stop posting matters of crime on social media as it is causing panic. “Our people should not exaggerate security incidents because people panic and are not able to continue with their businesses,” he said.  