Today’s agenda for Kenya, and Kenyans, should be to aggressively protect and see the environment as the pristine source of their livelihoods, food security, economic prosperity and sustainable future. One of the biggest challenges for Kenya is how to restore and protect forests, degraded by years of deforestation and poor management. While the global appeal is to plant more trees, in line with the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, Kenyans are cutting down 50,000 hectares of trees annually for timber, firewood and charcoal or to create space for farming and construction. FOOD SECURITYGovernment policy and action need to be firm and focused on how environmental conservation contributes to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s ‘Big Four’ agenda. A clean environment has an impact on food security, health outcomes, affordable housing and growing the manufacturing sector. Mr Keriako Tobiko, the Cabinet Secretary for Environment and Forestry, has urged Kenyans to plant more trees to raise the country’s forest cover from seven per cent to 10 per cent in the medium term. Tobiko’s charge sheet includes clamping down on illegal loggers and foresters complicit in the destruction of forests. A task force that he appointed recently is expected to conduct a rapid assessment of environmental degradation and offer a remedy. CONSERVATIONWhile fighting with offenders is likely to yield quick results, the government needs to take a wider perspective. The starting point is to improve public awareness on the link between the environment and their daily fortunes and sufferings. The people must understand how tightly bound they are to trees, which produce the oxygen that we breathe, bring rains and stop soil erosion. Trees provide water, improve the climate for farming and create jobs and livelihoods. AWARENESSThe disconnect between public policy and the people’s actions continues to hurt conservation efforts. The government needs to intensify civic education and public participation to influence and mobilise Kenyans to realise its target of planting 5.1 million trees by 2030. A viable strategy would be to draw lessons from countries that have implemented transformative afforestation and reforestation programmes. China is an outstanding example of how to tackle environmental crises that threaten the development of its economy and people. It is charging ahead with an ambitious programme to plant 100 billion trees on 4,500 square kilometres of land to stop the Gobi Desert from invading its farmlands. Under the Great Green Wall programme, the Chinese have planted more than 66 billion trees in the past 40 years and stopped the encroachment of the desert in the mid-northern border of China with Mongolia. LOGGINGThe initiative has also reduced dust storms that once choked the capital Beijing. Planting millions of trees should be a must for Kenyans. Knowledge about sustainable environmental management is critical to influencing and engaging the people in protecting the environment. Illegal logging is fuelled by demand for forest products, mainly caused by rapid urbanisation and a growing middle class. The vice is likely to continue so long as the imbalance between supply and demand isn’t managed. The government needs to engage stakeholders on the diversity of activities, beyond planting trees, that can be implemented to enhance conservation and contribute to economic development. The government and the people should also embrace innovative, climate-smart environmental conservation and management practices that ease the strain on the environment, but increase social and economic benefits. Mr Warutere is a director of Mashariki Communications Ltd. ptwarutere@gmail.com  