A Nairobi court on Friday allowed the police to continue holding five people suspected to have planned an attack at the Milimani law courts last month, in a bid to help a Marsabit cleric escape from custody. Appearing before senior principal magistrate Martha Mutuku, the Anti-Terrorism Police Unit were allowed to hold the suspects for 30 more days. CHARGES The suspects are Mr Abdimajit Adan, Mr Mohammed Nane, Mr John Maina, Mr Anthony Kitila alias Rasta and Ms Lydia Nyawira. It is believed that the suspects planned to attack the court and rescue Sheikh Guyo Gorsa, who is being held over terror-related charges. Police alleged that the five intended to launch an attack at the Milimani Chief Magistrate’s Court on February 16, when Mr Gorsa was scheduled answer to charges of terror. Two suspects were arrested at dawn at Merti, Isiolo County, while transporting a cache of weapons in a car embedded with improvised explosives. Police found five AK-47 rifles and 36 fully loaded magazines, 36 unprimed hand grenades, 18 IEDs, three military knives, a black flag and other paraphernalia associated with the Al-Shabaab terrorist group. PLAN State counsel Duncan Ondimu told the court that the five had made an elaborate plan to carry out the attack and rescue Mr Gorsa. The Sheikh was arrested on January 13. Mr Ondimu said investigations showed that the suspects were in constant communication with known terrorists in Somalia. He said the suspects were likely to interfere with investigations, if they were freed. SAFE HOUSES The court also heard that a tenancy agreement was recovered in a house within Rongai area, where a search has since been conducted and more items found, including two log books. It is believed that Mr Kitila, who is a taxi driver, bought three vehicles that were to be used in the attack. He allegedly rented several “safe houses” in Rongai and in Southlands, Lang’ata. He also allegedly paid for hotels rooms. Investigators are now pursuing other people who were communicating with the suspects in Kenya and outside the country prior to their arrest.  