George Wayne, 24, looks no different from any other student at Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT), where he is studying computer science. His is a different story though, because he is not only a student, he is an entrepreneur too. His company, Breton Bikes, a name that was influenced by his fascination with the Breton, a breed of draft horses, rents out bicycles to students at the main campuses of Moi and Daystar universities. His business idea came about after coming across someone who runs a similar business in Juja, a town near JKUAT. “Sometime in September 2016, I rented a bike from him, and as I was riding within the school compound, it occurred to me that I could start a similar business and make money.” After conducting some research, which involved asking friends whether they would rent a bike, for what purpose and how much they would be willing to pay for it, George concluded that it was a promising venture. “There are times when you are late for class, yet there is an assignment that you have to hand in, in time - what do you do? A bike is definitely faster than walking or running to class,” he explains. As for leisure, during weekends, one might want to go for a picnic with friends, take a leisurely ride, or exercise. A bike is great for this. Convinced that he could not go wrong with this venture, he invested Sh250, 000 that he had saved from a previous business, which involved selling customised jewelry online - his aunt would design the pieces, which he would then sell on her behalf at a profit. “When I started that online business, the only skills I had were great marketing skills - I am social and outgoing, and have no problem approaching strangers, introducing myself and telling them what I do,” he explains. He started his bicycle rental company with 10 bikes, which he bought locally for Sh10, 000 each. He used the remaining Sh150, 000 to cover expenses such as transporting the bikes to his place of business, customising his workshop, and rent for a couple of months. His fellow students, who are his core business, hire the bikes for fitness, leisure, or a ride to school. He charges between Sh50 to Sh100 per hour depending on the bike rented. The learners leave their student IDs as a form of security, which are then returned to them once they hand over the bikes. “Since students need their ID’s to get into the school compound, we had to inform the school administrations about the existence of the business and seek their approval to use their students’ IDs as security. In case of bike theft, it’s easy to follow up with the administration,” he explains. George notes that the success of every business is dependent on many factors, one of them location. This is why he settled on institutions located in remote areas, and which do not have many social centres around them. “I for instance settled on Moi University, Eldoret, because having been a student there for two years before I transfered to JKUAT, I knew my way around and was sure that the students would find the bikes handy,” he explains. He was also lucky to get a suitable rental space to set up his business, which began to flourish after just four months. The reception of his business idea at Daystar University has been encouraging too. Here, Breton Bikes run a cycling club that organises various activities, such as charity events and races. To participate, one pays a registration fee of Sh100 a semester. Business has picked up fast. From 10, his company now has 60 bikes, and George has had to bring on board four investors to pump more capital into the business and help out with the operation of the business. The company, which he registered in May last year, has six employees. The employees handle different roles, such as assigning bikes, marketing the business on social media platforms and repairing the bikes. Interestingly, one of their employees, who is in charge of repairs, is an elderly man in his seventies. The others are below 40. “The salaries my four partners and I earn vary every month depending on the profit we make, as well as the shares each of us have in the business. On average, however, the business does not fail to make less than Sh30, 000 in profit every month.” A portion of this money is ploughed back into the business, the aim to buy higher quality bikes, which will be more effective and require less repair work. “I have a long-term goal – to inculcate a cycling culture among my peers. This will not only play a part in reducing traffic on our roads, but also environmental pollution,” he says. His parents have been very supportive, and still pay his my school fees. He however pays for his other expenses, such as rent and food. “When I started this business, they were worried that my studies will suffer, but they are at peace now, since I have managed to balance my school work and my business, though my studies are my first priority.” His company also gives to charity and takes part in charitable events. In July last year for instance, they provided 20 bikes during the inaugural Cycle Fest Kenya, an event that campaigns for early detection and treatment of cancer besides raising money for cancer patients. Having been in business for a year now, George notes that it has been a fairly smooth ride, except for a few challenges, such as weather and the high maintenance cost of the bikes. “During the rainy season, students rent fewer bikes, which means slow business. Also, the repair cost is quite high because we source spare parts from third parties. Sometimes, students insist on paying less than we are asking for.” They are working on an app that will enable them to operate an automated payment system and track the bikes. George has gathered a couple of valuable lessons in his short entrepreneurship journey. “As the founder and leader of the team, I have had to learn how to manage people, plan ahead and use money wisely - for instance, I first save a certain percentage of my earnings, then pay rent and set aside money for food and other day-to-day needs. What remains is what goes to leisure,” he explains, adding that another lesson he has picked along the way is that sometimes, all you need to make a steady step ahead is to strongly believe in yourself.   .     