In this interactive series, we invite our readers to send in questions to select public figures. Answers will be published in the next print and online editions. This week, Mandera Governor Ali Roba responds to your questions: 1. Teachers who are not locals in your county are living under threats of them being kidnapped by terrorists and killed. What are the elders who have substantial say on your county affairs doing to flash out those who are behind these barbaric attacks against innocent, unarmed civilians? Solomon Gatobu, Maua In the first two years of devolution we suffered 209 terror attacks, 10 of them had serious fatalities. 80 per cent occurred in greater Mandera Town. Concerted efforts have led to zero attacks through border securitization and engagement of leadership and the public. It is unfortunate we cannot move Mandera from where it is and we will remain sharing a border with Somalia. What is encouraging is the drastic reduction of attacks and severity over the last two years. I can assure all civil servants to be patient as we keep improving security. 2. Your administration had issued numerous unpaid Local Purchase Orders during your first tenure. What plans are in place to pay off such outstanding debts given the economic impact it has had on individuals and companies who made deliveries based on the documents? Aden Mohamed, Greenville, SC. US Mandera County has carried out a forensic audit of all liabilities and had to bite the bullet by deliberately budgeting to settle all pending bills. We have a budget to settle debts owed to suppliers. The delay has been occasioned by slow flow of funds from the Treasury, which has not released funds to us five months worth of disbursements totalling to Sh4.2 billion. When Treasury releases the funds, we will settle the accounts. 3. It is now three and half years since a new water pipe was laid in Bulla Garay, Kamor location, Township ward and still not a single drop of water comes through. What plans do you have for the perennial water problem in Bulla Garay, which is at the heart of Mandera Town. Alibashir Iman, Mombasa Alibashir, your statement is incorrect. The project was contracted in 2016-17 and involved piping through Neboi farm from the river, Shaf Shafe, Tawakal, Bula Mpya and Bula Garay. Everything is connected except Bula Garay stretch, which will be completed in June. We urge residents to be patient because water will flow soon. 4. Outline some of your achievements on health since the advent of devolution. Omar Hassan, Mandera Before devolution, Mandera County suffered the worst health indicators that not only surpassed the national averages but also global ones. For instance, we inherited the worst Maternal Mortality Rate indicators not only in this country but the entire world. The rate stood at 3,795 deaths per 100,000 live births, as compared to the national average of 488 deaths per 100,000 live births. On March 2013, we inherited 53 health facilities in the entire county out of which only three were operating at less than 10 per cent capacity. At the same time, we inherited from the national government 154 health care workers many of them being unskilled. To address these negative excesses, Mandera County Government came up with a deliberate investment strategy in line with Millennium Development Goals, the national reproductive health policy and vision 2030, whose objective was to accelerate the reduction of maternal, newborn, and childhood morbidity and mortality. HEALTHCARE Besides the overall investment agenda, we have made maternal and neonatal child healthcare the top priority area in the health service delivery. We have increased the number of health facilities that provide basic emergency obstetric care from 18 to 70 all operating at 100 per cent capacity. Today, we have 833 skilled health care workers including 34 medical officers.We have also increased health facilities by constructing 63 new facilities. Overall the healthcare service capacity has increased by more than 400 per cent. 5. Terrorist attacks are not new to you since on several occasions you have escaped by a whisker. When the Teachers Service Commission decided to grant transfers to teachers affected by the latest attacks, leaders from that region condemned the decision. However, the information emanating from those affected is that the local residents for some time have been guiding these attackers to where the non-locals live. This movement of teachers has hurt children in the region. What is your take on this situation and how can it be resolved in a sustainable manner? Komen Moris, Eldoret Thank you Komen. I want to correct the perception that locals collude with terrorists and direct them to attack non-local residences. The opposite is true. During the Alungu attack locals used their bodies as human shields to protect non-locals during attacks. This gesture shows Mandera people care. 6. Now that the High Court has upheld your election what are you doing to unite the people of Mandera who since the 2017 elections HAVE been divided by among others, your disregard of the elders’ decree that you retire from politics? Abdifatah Noor Ali, Mandera Elections in Mandera should not be different from those in Busia, Siaya, Kiambu or Kwale. There is nothing unique in our case. The level of enmity and hatred after a democratic election has been fuelled by retrogressive propaganda and fabricated lies by our opponents. God decides who becomes a leader. It is our responsibility to reconcile communities. We have started by lobbying for appointment of my opponent Hassan Noor Hassan to a key position in the Jubilee administration. I thank President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy William Ruto for focusing their development agenda on Mandera. Our next course of action is to bring Economic Freedom Party and Jubilee to the reconciliation table. For the record I have no personal difference with anyone. 7. Your previous administration was criticized for corruption. What measures have you put in place to fight the scourge? Abdifatah Noor Ali, Mandera Corruption is evil and criminal. We are transparent and accountable. We do not condone graft. We implemented a raft of safeguards whose impact is being felt in healthcare, lands, and administrative services. We took disciplinary measures against those who were adversely mentioned. We urge members of the public to report any corruption cases to Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. We have cleaned up our payroll and rid the workforce of ghost workers and we are compiling files for forwarding to the EACC for action. 8. What is your county administration doing about the alarming insecurity that has rendered the Elwak-Lafey-Mandera road one of the most dangerous because of ambushes by terrorists? Abdiqafar Khalif, Lafey Town We have lobbied for additional security from the national Government even though security is not devolved. We carry the mandate of ensuring socio-economic well-being of our people and we will continue in our efforts to partner with the national government to enhance security. 9. The residents of Lafey constituency who have suffered many terror-related attacks claim you have neglected them. From the onset of devolution till today, Lafey Sub County remains underdeveloped and is lagging behind other sub-counties. What are your plans to improve the status of the constituency in terms of health and roads? Abdiqafar Khalif, Lafey Town Lafey has received everything that every sub-county has received. It has the first sub-county headquarters. The road between Lafey to Mandera has been constructed in all its segments from Mandera–Arabia, Arabia-Fino, Fino-Fafey and Lafey to B-9 junction. The Lafey-Waranqara road has been done and Mandera to Salaa paved. Lafey is the most water-secure sub-county. We continue to develop all counties fairly. 10. What are your plans to create jobs especially for the youth? Adan Hassan, Mandera We have the highest number of youthful employees in Kenya. During recruitment we give special consideration to the youth below 40. We have also made many attempts to attract private investments but lack of an enabling environment such as roads and sufficient electricity to support industrialisation and the challenge of insecurity still bogs us down. We have invested in Technical College, ECD College, medical training college and teachers training college, which are all operational for the first time since independence. Some will be graduating their first candidates soon. We plan to have a veterinary college as a strategic investment also soon. 11. What major capital project should we look out in your second term? Ugas Cade Hassan To enhance food security in agriculture we look forward to 1,000 acres under irrigation in each sub-county with full infrastructure to support it. We will tarmac all subcounty headquarters and build inter-ward roads to allow connectivity. Expect increased water security through heavy capital investment. We will improve health in all sub-counties to fully-fledged Level Four Hospitals and upgrade Mandera Referral facility to Level Five. Expect at least three industries to be up and running by 2022. Inevitably we must absorb the initial cost of triggering industrialisation in our county. 12. There has been water shortage in Mandera since independence. As the county manager what strategies do you have to end this problem? Phillip O Otieno, Kenyatta University Water sector has witnessed tremendous investment. We successfully drilled 70 boreholes, 69 new water pans, installed 96 underground water tanks, 85 rural water supply systems and one urban water supply system is ongoing in Elwak. Rural water supply improved to 68.3 per cent. Urban water supply systems improved by 31 per cent to 48 per cent. We are soon commissioning a water and sewerage programme worth Sh2.4 billion in partnership with Inter Governmental Authority for Development we are negotiating for a riparian dam upstream of River Daua. For more questions and answers go to www.nation.co.ke  