Before having lunch with two old friends in a London club last week, I left my bag and overcoat in the cloakroom. I made special notice of the hook I used, number 60. Being well-endowed in years, much of our conversation over the lamb cutlets concerned coping with life at an advanced age. There had been a BBC programme about three people with dementia. Dementia sounds like a terrible word for madness, but mostly this was represented in terms of slow mental decline. Three years ago Christopher Devas could speak in full sentences, but now he cannot remember his wife’s name. ALZHEIMER'SHe has Alzheimer’s Disease, just like half a million other British people. Experts tell us that by 2050, some 1.3 million people will be living at home with some form of dementia. The second of the BBC’s “patients” was Wendy Mitchell, diagnosed with Early Onset Alzheimer’s three years ago when she was 57. She has since moved to be near one of her daughters. Her new home has a picture of forget-me-not flowers on either side of the door so that Wendy can recognise her own house. Former head teacher Keith Oliver was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s in 2010. He told the reporter, “Some days are foggy. The fog comes down and then the fog lifts. It’s patchy. That’s what dementia is often like.” MEMORYWell, we three old musketeers agreed, we’re not that bad! We could remember where we lived and the names of our loved ones but there were oddities. One had been buying a train ticket with his credit card but went totally blank on his pin number and had to produce £100-plus in cash. Another had to cancel a short car trip to pick up a grandchild because his car keys had disappeared. He found them later in the bread bin. For myself, I had just read an extraordinary book, Still Alice, the novelised account of how a university professor named Alice falls victim to Early Onset Alzheimer’s aged just over 50. The book was filmed in 2014 and Julianne Moore won an Oscar for the name part. ATTENTIONBoth book and film were riveting, wholly accurate scientifically, but harrowing to watch as Alice slowly deteriorates to a state of near infantilism. Naturally, I examined my own behaviour. Yes, sometimes I forget why I have gone upstairs, but a few moments later, it comes back to me; sure, I have to check on some family Christian names, but who remembers who all those kids are? And true, sometimes I think one word and type another. I sent an email this morning with the word “fan”, as in football fan, but what I actually wrote was “fashion.” But these are minor blips, aren’t they, just errors of inattention? CLOAKROOMAt the club, with snow billowing outside (I can certainly tell you the year when it was last so bad: 1946), we broke up and went for our coats. I headed straight to hook number 60, the hook I had specially memorised. My coat and bag were not there. After a long search and with the help of a club servant, I found them on hook 20. All I can say is that the hook numbers were very elaborately painted and you could easily mistake a 2 for a 6. Honest! * * * A couple of weeks ago, this column mentioned Daniel Kaluuya, born in London the son of Ugandan immigrant parents, as a rising star of the international screen scene. Daniel had just won the Rising Star award at the British Academy BAFTA ceremony for his performance in the horror movie, Get Out. The 28-year-old was also nominated for a Best Actor award in the American Oscars. He faced formidable opposition in the likes of Daniel Day Lewis, Gary Oldman and Denzel Washington, and sure enough, Gary Oldman won for his portrayal of Winston Churchill in the film Darkest Hour. But Kaluuya is now a name to be reckoned with in the entertainment world. Incidentally, Get Out was on TV the other night but I only watched the first 10 minutes. Too scary for me. * * * An elderly lady telephones the newspaper office and demands, “Where’s my Sunday paper?” The office person replies, “You will get it tomorrow, Madam, today is Saturday.” “Oh,” said the old lady, “I’ll bet that’s why there was nobody in church today either.” * * * Doctor to patient: “I have bad news and good news.” The old lady asks, “What’s the bad news?” Doctor: “You have Alzheimer’s Disease.” Good news? “You can go home and forget about it.” * * * A senior citizen sits in a care home every day with a pillow on his head. Asked why, he says, “It’s to keep the kangaroos away.” When the care worker looks doubtful, he says, “Well, when did you last see a kangaroo in New York?” Gerryo69@hotmail.com   Former head teacher Keith Oliver was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s in 2010.