Sofapaka continued with their steady rise after a disastrous start to the season with a 2-1 win over Posta Rangers in a Kenyan Premier League match at Kenyatta Stadium on Saturday. New signings Stephen Waruru and Kepha Aswani struck a goal apiece as Batoto ba Mungu put Sammy Omollo’s struggling Rangers to the sword in a chilly afternoon in Machakos. Gearson Likono scored Posta's goal with nine minutes to time before being substituted for Joseph Nyagah. The two tacticians were involved in a late scuffle the last time the two teams faced off in a 1-1 stalemate in Narok County in August last year. The 2009 champions, who lost 1-0 and drew 1-1 against Posta last season, moved third on the standings on nine points after the win, a point adrift of early pacesetters Gor Mahia and Mathare United. Posta remain on six points from five rounds. Sofapaka coach Sam Ssimbwa benched Umaru Kasumba for Kevin Kimani in the only change from the team that overcame AFC Leopards 2-1 in midweek. ""We won but I'm not happy with how we played. We got injuries in the second half that forced us to make substitutions but I am happy with three points," the outspoken Ssimbwa said. "We have tough games up next so we have to go and prepare." Omollo, who was handed a three-match suspension from the touchline after the incidence last year, tore into his defence after the match. "We were not good defensively today because we conceded easy goals. We made changes in the second half that changed the tide but again we let in a goal that demoralised us early on," Omollo said, adding: "The referee failed to control the game in the last ten minutes." STARVED OF POSSESSION Posta dominated proceedings early on with Jeremiah Wanjala’s ambitious shot early on failing to test Sofapaka goalkeeper Mathias Kigonya but the Ugandan custodian was forced into his first save of the half by Likono afterwards. On the other end, Sofapaka, who were starved of possession by the Posta midfield, saw Willis Ouma’s outrageous shot from a distance fly off target after he was released by Kimani’s backheel. Kennedy Otieno then wasted what was the match’s first clear cut opportunity after shooting wide from inside the area after Wanjala chested the ball down into his path inside the box. Posta, now pushing forward for the opener as the clock ticked towards the half-time mark, broke forward with Osborne Monday releasing Likono, but the former Chemelil Sugar man’s audacious shot went wayward off target. ASWANI SCORES Suleiman Ngotho fouled Waruru at the edge of the box on 44 minutes, and from Kimani's free-kick, the former Ulinzi Stars man headed home his first goal of the season.   On resumption, Bernard Mang’oli was thrown into the fray for Mike Oduor by Ssimbwa as Posta pulled out Jeremiah Wanjala for Jared Obwoge, Luis Tera came out for Calvin Odongo. Aswani then made it 2-0 three minutes after the restart after slotting home from inside the area from Kigonya’s goal-kick.   Posta twice won free kicks at the edge of the box but only Likono’s 54th seemed to trouble Mathias Kigonya into Batoto ba Mungu post. Humphrey Okoti was called into action for Yusuf Mohammed who limped off with an injury a minute later. Kasumba, who replaced Waruru in the 66th minute, combined with Asieche who found Willis Ouma on the far right but the former Chemelil Sugar man’s cross was cleared by Ngotho from a dangerous area.  