Whether human beings can multitask has been a subject of discussion for ages. The coming of mobile technology has put the debate to rest. The rising number of accidents associated with people who text or talk and walk at the same time confirms that men and women cannot multitask. Facebook, texting, Twitter, Instagram, online dating, email and Google, and many others have allowed us to redefine intimacy and engagement. However, as important as these virtual connections may be, it is equally important to be present and aware of our actual surroundings. ATTENTIONThe allure of technology-based communication is so intense that many people – young and old – no longer pay attention to what’s in front of them. Their faces are buried in smart phones while navigating dangerous traffic, uneven sidewalks, thereby getting hurt. Our brains evolved to focus attention on primarily one task at a time. It’s a phenomenon psychologists refer to as “inattention blindness”. Consider this: In a study published in 2012 by researchers from New York’s Stony Brook University, 60 per cent of people texting while walking veered off their walking path. The researchers were shocked to learn how disruptive walking and texting could be to one’s gait. INJURIESIn the past, videos of people walking into poles and falling into manholes while on their phones texting have become viral video sensations. They’re funny and interesting, but there are potential injuries if you are not careful. Many phone users have gotten hurt simply because of not handling their texting obsession and doing other tasks at the same time. It eventually leads to serious accidents. The truth is it can be incredibly dangerous. Fifty per cent of people who get into accidents when they run into something while texting have actually done so in their own home, according to some studies. SAFETYAlthough locally we do not have clear data on mobile phone related accidents, anecdotal evidence points to a quickly rising number of pedestrian-texting injuries – mostly facial fractures, nosebleeds and lacerations to the feet and ankles. The precise numbers aren’t the primary concern of health workers; it’s the rising trends that worry them. Around the world, some cities have banned walking and texting. London, for example, has padded the lampposts to lessen the impact between human beings and lampposts. And it’s not just texting that causes problems. It’s reading texts, checking emails, using social networking apps and even talking on the phone. To varying degrees, they all pull your attention away from minding your safety while walking. PEDESTRIANSIt has been proven that distraction from texting while walking can cause pedestrians to cross roads unsafely. Not only can trips and falls occur, but also getting hit by a car or a boda boda is more than just a possibility. Here is the solution. You should text when you are in a standstill position or sitting down. Most accidents can be prevented if cell phone users simply kept off their phones when walking. When you simply can’t wait to take a phone call or check your texts, Safety.com recommends that you hold your phone up higher in your visual field so that you can see any potential risks as they come. In the Kenyan context, doing this would be akin to beckoning muggers, even the inexperienced ones. It also suggests that pedestrians should cross the road at crosswalks, taking frequent breaks from using a device to assess the surroundings or using software that reads messages aloud. The writer is an informatics specialist. samwambugu@gmail.com @samwambugu2  