After months of hype, Canaan has proved to be a very different destination than earlier assumed. It is actually in Harambee House. Alas, the three joyriders who had been left out now want in, for lack of any other strategy. Kalonzo Musyoka has a history of flip-flopping, so there is no surprise there. Meanwhile, ODM has drawn first blood, with plans to kick out Moses Wetang’ula as Senate Minority Leader. Oops! JUBILEE PACTAlongside Musalia Mudavadi, the trio are in a fix. They were left angry and frustrated in the sweltering wilderness, as their ringleader dashed back to Egypt for the handshake with Pharaoh. So hasty was his return he chose to take a speedboat across the Red Sea. He left no roadmap to the Promised Land. His colleagues have no option but to turn back too. What to do when the head honcho has abandoned you in the desert, with nothing to eat? They are keeping their fingers crossed that they will receive a little of the rapturous welcome accorded the main Prodigal Son. Plus the enticing chicken and nyama of Egypt. The import of the Pharaonic handshake will become clearer once the work of a promised joint secretariat is known. NASA'S FUTURE It will be headed by Martin Kimani, a diplomat, and Paul Mwangi, a lawyer who does tasks for Baba. The 2001-2002 Kanu-NDP “cooperation” had the same fleeting lifespan as Nasa, which has barely lasted a year. Baba’s defection sounds the death knell for Nasa. In fact, it has been falling apart since January 30, the day Baba held a Bible aloft. The March 9 handshake only formalised the death rites. Highfalutin projects like the so-called people’s assemblies have now been abandoned. Daydreams of forcing a fresh election in August have gone the way of the dodo. Baba’s presidential intentions for 2022 remain a wild card, even as the three lost souls who he left wandering aimlessly in the wilderness soldier on without a compass. ELECTIONSWith Baba gone, there is terrible confusion in Sinai, and the proverbial gnashing of teeth. Trouble is when this confusion is transferred back to Egypt as everybody returns, ruining the joyous homecoming celebrations. By right, Baba’s people will demand space. Their passion knows no parallel. Some fellows will be displaced. Could this be another nusu mkate? The URP wing is nervous, agitated even. People like Aden Duale are plainly mistaken if they think nothing has changed. Casualties will happen. As they say, “wengine wajipange” come 2022. RECOGNITIONBaba’s overweening need for recognition and status must always come first. Once Pharaoh gives him that, the deal is as good as sealed. Woe unto the king if he reneges. The noise that will erupt will shake the pyramids. Throw in a motorcade and some kind of title, and Baba will be pleased as punch. The Sultan of Mombasa is one of the returnees. He has made his way back in a sulking mood. Johnson Muthama, the gemstone merchant, is stuck with the meandering Kalonzo. Others like the self-proclaimed General of the National Resistance Movement lost their way long ago and strayed into uncharted territory. VOTERS He vows to fight back for his birthright, ferociously. It’s not clear if he commands any troops, other than a poison pen and scathing tweets. I happened to be some place over the weekend where muthamaki was the subject, in an unflattering way. He has annoyingly acquired the Baba-style habit of treating his voters like sheep, with no consideration or explanations given. He will flop big-time if he keeps on with this behaviour of pulling rabbits out of the hat without warning. It is amazing how everybody agrees to be herded blind like zombies. Hey, I am beginning to think the exiled NRM general is more principled! I am reminded of George Orwell’s novella Animal Farm. The animals beheld an astonishing sight when they looked through the farm house window: “They looked from pig to man, and from man to pig, and from pig to man again, but already it was impossible to tell which was which.” Warigi is a socio-political commentator gitauwarigi@yahoo.com  