The government has started clearing bushes along the Garsen-Witu road to prevent frequent terror attacks on vehicles. Speaking to the Nation, Tana River County Commissioner Oning’oi ole Sossio said the bushes will be cleared for 50 metres on both sides to ensure Al-Shabaab militants have no place to hide near the roads. “It was easy for the terrorists to take clear shots of moving vehicles because they could just hide in the bushes by the roadside. It will be very difficult to take such shots 50m away from the road and such clearance also exposes them,” he said. Mr Ole Sossio also said the government has deployed specialised forces in civilian clothes to patrol the road on foot. SPECIALISED FORCES He said residents had reported cases of armed men in civilian clothes walking along the Nyongoro road, only to confirm that the men were specialised forces deployed to enhance security along the terror-prone road. “We have taken serious measures to ensure that the road is safe for passengers. There is a specialised group patrolling on foot and another in a vehicle day and night. Others are living just within the bushes and others provide intelligence in the villages,” he said. Mr Ole Sossio dismissed claims of cases of extra-judicial killings cited by Muslims for Human Rights (Muhuri) organisation during meetings in Garsen. PASTORALISTS He said pastoralist communities would at times trend on dangerous grounds hence getting killed by Al-Shabaab radicals or even by wild animals in the forest where they trespass to graze. “Our forces take care of lives. They don’t take lives of innocent Kenyans. Pastoralist tend to trend on dangerous grounds where they fall prey to wild game or terrorists hiding in the forest. It so happens that when a family loses their loved ones, they accuse the security agents, which is not right,” he said. He called on the pastoralists to graze their animals in safe grounds where their lives will not be at risk. He also said that the dusk-to-dawn curfew on dhows in River Tana will stay until insecurity is addressed. EASTER SECURITY Meanwhile, the commissioner assured Christians of their security during the Easter celebrations. He urged all churches wishing to conduct night vigils during the celebrations should alert the security personnel to be provided with security. Al-Shabaab militants have been ambushing passengers and security personnel along the Garsen-Lamu road, killing many and leaving others maimed. However, the attacks have reduced in the recent past. Between May and November last year, more than 30 police officers were killed in different attacks by Al-Shabaab. In January, the terrorists resurfaced with fresh raids targeting security personnel and motorists using the Lamu-Malindi road. In January, the attackers ambushed Ishakani Village in Lamu, a day after killing a woman and injuring five police officers at Nyongoro along the Lamu-Malindi road. They also set two police cars ablaze before disappearing into the nearby bushes.   Commissioner Oning’oi ole Sossio says bushes will be cleared for 50 metres on both sides of the road.