I support, in principle, return of the National Youth Service ‘Nyayo Bus’ in Nairobi. It is the duty of every metropolis worth its name to ensure an efficient, safe, clean and predictable commuter transport system. If the matatu mentality of Governor Mike Sonko’s Nairobi City County administration cannot see the urgent need for such a service, then it is right that the national government step in. The new NYS buses can play an invaluable role in setting standards in pricing, comfort, security, discipline, common courtesy, road safety and fixed timetables. If commuters vote with their feet by trooping to a superior service, the private operators will have no option but to up their game. The initial number of buses is a drop in the ocean but we already see signs of panic in the matatu industry and threats to undermine the initiative. Any attempt by anyone at sabotaging or disrupting the new service must be dealt with firmly. LAWLESSNESS In the meantime, we must take responsibility for the lawlessness in city transport. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s re-election campaign struck a Faustian pact with the devil by wooing support from matatu operators in exchange for a hands-off approach to the industry. The traffic police, the National Transport and Safety Authority and the Ministry of Transport (and other things) abandoned all pretence at regulating and taming matatus. The so-called ‘Michuki rules’ were thrown out of the window and impunity and lawlessness reigned supreme. The matatu lobby feels betrayed — that’s why they are so bitter. Well, the industry leaders should appreciate the simple fact that President Kenyatta is safely in office and they can’t hold him by the gonads. SHORT TERM FIX And although I mentioned supporting the return of the NYS buses, however commendable, that can only be a short-term fix to the city’s public transport woes. What we should be looking to is a series of light rail services criss-crossing the city and providing links to the greater metropolis incorporating Machakos, Kitengela, Ngong, Kiambu, Thika, Limuru, Kangundo and adjacent regions. There is also a need for formal and properly organised scheduled bus services connecting the central business district to all residential, commercial and industrial hubs of the capital. This can only be done through a system where one serious investor, or maybe up four or five if the city is split into zones, is given exclusive franchise in a public-private partnership. KENYA BUS SERVICE Those who lived in Nairobi when it worked will recall the Kenya Bus Service you could set your clock by — until it was driven out of business after President Jomo Kenyatta gave freedom of the city to pirate transport operators. It can be done. I fear, though, that NYS might not be equipped to run a modern bus service. We remember only too well the fanfare when President Daniel arap Moi launched the original Nyayo Bus Service in 1986. Donors generously supported the service with brand new buses, spare parts and complete mechanical workshops but, in less than six years, mismanagement and plunder had driven the venture into the ground. I still have my doubts that the NYS today has the competences, skills, vision and basic uprightness to build and grow a competitive transport business. CLUELESS LOT A first sign that we may be dealing with a clueless lot is provided by the completely inappropriate design of bus chosen to launch the service: They went for cross-country buses with loads of under-carriage luggage space, rather than the low-lying hop-on, hop-off chassis designed for urban commutes. * * * The truce between President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition leader Raila Odinga is welcome if it opens the way to resolution of the long-standing issues that incite ethno-political conflict. It would be unfortunate, however, if a key outcome is a splintering of the forces that provide checks against majoritarian tyranny. A divided National Super Alliance will be at a great disadvantage seated opposite Jubilee Party across the negotiation table. Mr Odinga is either being hopelessly optimistic or in a state of denial when he insists that all is well in Nasa. The ‘Mulembe Nation’ of two key Nasa partners — Moses Wetangula and Musalia Mudavadi — is threatening to form its own opposition alliance. Hey, maybe there’s a silver lining in that cloud; the long-divided Luhya might finally unite? gaithomail@gmail.com Twitter: @MachariaGaitho  