Despite the challenges facing the coconut sector at the Coast, farmers are keen to reap big from their produce. Susan Sonje based in Watamu, is one such a farmer as she processes oil for the skin from the nut. Susan started her business in 2012 after training by the Kenya Coconut Development Authority (KCDA) and she has not looked back since then. “I mainly process oil. I started this business after training on value addition of coconut products,” she says. Her business is called Muyaza, named after her first daughter. Initially, she worked with others as a group but it disintegrated. “The group did not take long because of challenges, including the price of coconut was too high and there was no ready market for the product. After their exit, I decided to register the business as a single entity,” she says. The mother of five produces an average of 10 litres of the oil every three days. But she says lack of enough coconut is hampering the growth of business. She sells a 500ml bottle for Sh700 while 250ml goes for Sh350. “The challenge is that I cannot send my products to the supermarket because I don’t have enough coconut to process the oil.” She has been getting coconut from farmers from different areas at Sh16 per piece, although there is currently a big scarcity. “I know once I send my product to the market, the demand will be high but I will not be able to meet it,” she says. To make coconut oil, split a mature nut into half with a cleaver and scrape the meat out from inside. Then, cut the meat into small cubes and blend them in a food processor. After they’re blended, cover a large jar with a cloth and pour the coconut to filter it. Squeeze the coconut on the cloth so that oil goes in the jar. Leave the jar for 24 hours and you end up with oil. As a skin care product, coconut oil is antibacterial and antifungal and is an excellent moisturiser. “My products were approved by Kenya Bureau of Standard last year. I want to expand my business but it will depend on coconut availability,” she concludes.   Farm hosts over 500 trees grown in 1973, an indication that the crop does well in the county, but lack of market for nuts is a huge hindrance.