Nairobi City County is planning to amend legislation, policies and regulations in a bid to improve the business environment with particular focus on small businesses and hawkers. It will also establish small hubs, which shall provide a platform for job seekers to find placement besides providing data on job creation, information on complimentary small firms, research and consultation. This follows the signing of a partnership to facilitate co-operation among the business communities in Nairobi last week. The MoU was inked between the county government and Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Nairobi County chapter. “Among the changes proposed are the development of markets and infrastructure bill, and review and amendment of the Trade Licensing Bill. This follows identification of Nairobi as a potential champion for the Sustainable Development Goals at sub-national level,” said Nairobi commerce chamber chairman Richard Ngatia. Mr Ngatia said they are planning policy reforms through creation or amendment of pro-business policies and regulations geared towards improving trade environment, spur economic growth of the creative arts and other critical sectors with an eye on women, youth and the aged. “The expectation is that it will improve all informal markets and also the life of Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) in Nairobi,” said Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko. READ: Nairobi hawkers will be relocated to new Kariokor market Sonko said hawkers will have a formal way of earning a living without breaking county laws once the devolved unit completes the development of markets and infrastructure where they can sell their wares. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko termed the pending Development of Markets and Infrastructure Bill formed in partnership with the Nairobi chamber as timely. At the same time, the chamber proposed the establishment of a Public Private Partnership Unit to work with Mr Sonko’s service delivery unit to eliminate obstacles that hinder growth of business. “We also want the establishment of a joint action forum for coordination and follow up of initiatives by county, national government and development partners,” said Mr Ngatia.  