The People’s Assembly, a Nasa initiative launched to address among other things electoral injustice, has been suspended. The assembly was suspended to give room for dialogue between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Nasa leader Raila Odinga. Following the meeting between the two leaders on Friday, the People’s Assembly Organising Committee Tuesday suspended all its meetings and has now tasked Mr Kenyatta and Mr Odinga to address all the issues that had been raised by the opposition. Nasa lead strategist David Ndii, who is also the chairman of the committee, said they had heeded a call by the two leaders to suspend the process. “The two leaders have asked us to give them an opportunity to spearhead this process. We acknowledge that it is better to reason together than separately. As another piece of African wisdom tells us, one fingernail cannot kill a louse,” said Dr Ndii in Nairobi. He added: “We have been assured this initiative will be about the people, will involve the people, and will be validated and owned by the people. But, we are alive to the painful history of political betrayal. We know that once the crisis subsides, leaders can get comfortable and allow the issues of the people to fade into the background. That’s how we have ended up where we are.” The committee, however, warned that should the two leaders fail to address issues of electoral injustice and discrimination in the country, then they will resume the process. “We want to take a back seat and watch the two leaders address all the issues raised by Nasa. We will, however, be watching them keenly and should we see that they are going in the wrong directions, we will resume with the People’s Assembly initiative,” said Dr Oduor Ong’wen who is also a member of the committee. The opposition had already launched assemblies in Coast, Western, Ukambani and Nyanza and were set to continue with the meetings in Kisii, Rift Valley, Kisii and North Eastern this year.   People's Assembly meetings now suspended countrywide: David Ndii.