As we move away from the sideshows and begin life without coach Robert Matano, there is little doubt that AFC Leopards fans will be back in the stadium in large numbers in the upcoming matches. Ingwe players have proved their worth in recent matches under caretaker coach, Dennis Kitambi, who should be given more time to handle the boys. I still remember with nostalgia, the good old days when tickets for the Mashemeji Derby would be sold out. For a very long time, AFC Leopards fans have remained speechless in disbelief as the team continues registering mixed results. But I see time coming when our critics will be silenced. Ingwe players have finally come out to prove their worth; a fact that is likely to start attracting lucrative broadcasting revenues as fans too get value for their money. In the past weeks, however, fans have been given not only hope, but a real boost. After creeping into second spot on the log and piling pressure on the Green Army, Ingwe players’ commitment is a timely reminder to the fans that wearing that beautiful blue and white jersey is worth more than money. Ingwe players have realized that playing for their club to earn a place to represent the country in continental assignments is a major highlight in their playing careers. Who are we fans to question them? After receiving a few lectures from their legends about what AFC Leopards is all about, the players promised to remain passionate about the jerseys they wear. Many fans are now hopeful, perhaps even quietly confident, that Ingwe players will remain focused throughout the season. I hope most players of this young team will be retained for long as they still have a lot to offer. We have started gaining points with big margin, albeit conceding almost the same number of goals. Ingwe has a strong squad capable of springing surprises, but coach Kitambi who so far has a perfect run of matches, must tighten his defence and rectify the errors as we look forward to maintaining the good run. Players who are lazy or not working as hard as they should must improve. In my column of February 5th I pointed out that the team is certainly in a better shape than last year because Matano had recruited well. We thank Matano for instilling discipline before he was laid off, though a few players and some officials who hate him because of telling them the truth contributed to his sacking. Whoever watched the team’s fighting spirit against Ulinzi Stars, Sony Sugar, Mathare United and Wazito FC will agree with me that the current Ingwe is ready to face any challenge that comes our way. The three opponents have kept their players together for long yet Ingwe proved their worth. All the players have started getting used to the way the technical bench wants them to operate and our remaining opponents should be ready for a big fight when they come face to face with us. The doubting Thomases should also know that Ingwe is back with a bang after a slow start to the season. The recent positive results have proved that Ingwe will be the most dangerous adversary this season in the Kenyan Premier League. It’s upon the office to know in which direction to steer the team back to its glory days of old. God willing Ingwe, the oldest surviving club, will return to continental football again next year. Let’s support Ingwe 100 per cent!  