Gor Mahia will hoping to put back their disappointment of failing to make it to the Caf Champions League group stages when they take on debutantes Vihiga United on Saturday in the Kenyan Premier League in Kisumu. And in Kericho on Monday, local football enthusiasts will be in for a tantalising Easter treat when spluttering Tusker host cruising AFC Leopards at the Kericho Green Stadium. In other matches set for Saturday, third-placed Bandari visit Kakamega Homeboyz at Bukhungu Stadium in Kakamega while Posta Rangers welcome winless Thika United at Camp Toyoyo at 2pm before Kariobangi Sharks tackle Ulinzi Stars at the same venue from 4.15pm. However, all eyes will be on the Tusker-Leopards clash, with Ingwe seeking to extend their fine run under caretaker coach Dennis Kitambi while Tusker will be out to win only their second match of the season. Leopards are second on the league standings behind arch-rivals Gor Mahia on goal difference although K’Ogalo have played a game less, while Tusker’s slow start to the season has seen the brewers perched on the bottom half since the opening day. 'DEMANDED FOR MORE' Last season, Ingwe and Tusker took turns winning this matchup, as the brewers won 1-0 in the first leg through Jackson Macharia’s goal with Ingwe claiming victory in the second leg match with a similar score line. Tusker coach Sam Timbe has demanded for more from his charges as they bid to climb up the standings. “I want more work from all departments,” Timbe told Nation Sport. Timbe’s boys approach this match on the back of a four-match winless streak, their last game being a 5-4 loss to Sofapaka in Machakos. Timbe will be hoping that new boys Timothy Otieno, Edwin Lavatsa and Matthew Odongo can fire in the right cylinders against Leopards. SIKHAYI RETURNS For Ingwe, the match presents another opportunity to pile pressure on Gor and also stretch their four-match winning run. Defender Dennis Sikhayi, who has missed a number of the team’s exploits due to injury, has returned to training two weeks ago and is available for selection. “We have created some good momentum and we are just trying to keep it up. I would like to see our team stay up there and I know the rest of the team feels the same so we shall give each game our best,” said Ingwe captain Duncan Otieno. In Kisumu on Saturday, Gor will be out to assert their supremacy locally when they take on debutantes Vihiga United. Gor’s last competitive outing was over two weeks ago when they were bundled out of the Caf Champions League by Tunisian giants Esperance after losing 1-0 on aggregate. FIXTURES Saturday Nzoia Sugar v Sony Sugar (Sudi Stadium, 2pm) Posta Rangers v Thika United (Camp Toyoyo, 2pm) Kakamega Homeboyz v Bandari (Bukhungu, 3pm) Nakumatt v Sofapaka (Ruaraka Grounds, 3pm) Gor Mahia v Vihiga United (Moi Kisumu, 3pm) Kariobangi Sharks v Ulinzi Stars (Camp Toyoyo, 4.15pm) Monday Zoo v Wazito (Kericho Green Stadium, 3pm) Tusker v AFC Leopards (Kericho Green Stadium, 4.15pm)  