As I am writing this piece, the love of our lives Gor Mahia have hours ago from take on Tunisian giants Esperance. As I have stated here in the past, I am a hopeless romantic who only believes in the positive side of our glamour boys. So in my side of the street the apostolic creed is that Gor Mahia is are very well capable of giving the Arabs a mighty kick in the backside that will land them bang right in the middle of the Mediterranean Sea and out of the championship. Be that as it may, today I want to pen a heartfelt missive to our chairman Ambrose Rachier. Dear Sir, kindly take charge of the Executive Committee aka Office which you are heading. Just days before the boys jetted out for this do-or-die match, some of your fellow officials treated us to the kind of sideshows and tittle-tattle we have come to associate with our sorry looking neighbours at the den. Definitely not Gor Mahia! Bwana Chairman, what I’m seeing is that some people managed to sneak into the hallowed ranks of Gor Mahia officialdom without appreciating the huge task hurled on their shoulders. Behaving like someone who has half drowned in cheap bootleg liquor in rundown beer halls and after dancing themselves lame to low quality music, they then decide to run the affairs of the club via Facebook. A day hardly passes without seeing one issue or another hang out in the public, gleefully and shamefully washing our dirty linen in public as it were. Matters that I firmly believe can be solved well within the confines of a private meeting involving all those concerned. More pitiful is that these cry babies don’t have a single achievement for the club to their names. I am told you people have a WhatsApp group where you are supposed to air your views concerning the club. Why not use it? I have had the privilege of seeing men and women who gave their all to the club. Men and women of pedigree who even though they never came to hold any post in the club’s Executive Committee, rose to the occasion when called upon. I have in mind people like Job Omino, the late Grace Akinyi Ogot (this one paid a hefty fine the club was slapped with after fans went overboard in celebrations after we won the 1985 East African Club Championship beating our regular customers, Ingwe). I have in mind people like the late Apollo Ndeda, who, although was never an official, was a key plank especially when it came to matters concerning City Stadium. It is a pity that this good company of men and women is now being soiled by Johnny-come-latelies with the morals of a brothel owner.  