The curriculum developer will on Thursday morning appear before the National Assembly Education Committee over errors in Sh7.5 billion textbooks for Form Ones. The Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD) is expected to shed light on various errors in the English, Kiswahili, biology and physics books to the committee chaired by Tinderet MP Julius Melly. ERRORS Some of the detected errors include a mix-up of the content ideas, spelling mistakes and poor arrangement of topics. Teachers said the errors confuse learners. Previously, students were using Kiswahili Kitukuzwe but it was changed to Uhondo wa Kiswahili. “Some of these errors have been existing in these books only that there were no core books that is why teachers failed to detect them. But again that raises the issue of quality,” said a teacher, adding that it means the initial vetting was not done well. QUALITY The Kenya Literature Bureau (KLB) was tasked with printing biology text books, which also have errors. Managing Director Victor Lomaria said: “The account of the test for Vitamin C in the KLB Secondary Biology Form One textbook for the entire procedure is correct. “However, regrettably, a typing error captured letter “D” instead of letter “C” in the conclusion. The typing error was noted during our quality review after printing and measures have been put in place to address the matter directly with schools to correct it.” Mr Lomaria said the company is committed to maintaining the highest quality in its products and spares no effort in ensuring that learners obtain quality educational materials for use in class and at home. “For this reason, we routinely review our books to expunge any inadvertent errors and improve on the content with every reprint,” added Mr Lomaria. Education PS Belio Kipsang has already indicated that KICD will address the issue of content and any errors. “We encourage our publishers to continue improving quality of the content in our free text books distributed to both primary and secondary schools. Content is always evolving,” said Mr Kipsang. TEXTBOOKS FOR ALL Meanwhile, all secondary school students will be supplied with textbooks by July this year as the government targets to improve the quality of basic education. Dr Kipsang said arrangements had been made to distribute text books for Forms Two, Three and Four, which had not been covered under the initial distribution of core titles to students. He said the direct-to-school textbook supplies will cover all subjects. Under the textbook supplies carried out in January to Form One students, only six subjects were covered. These are mathematics, English, Kiswahili, chemistry, biology and physics.   Teachers’ unions have demanded that the books be withdrawn because of the shortcomings.