Cloud is a service you use everyday, without even realising it. Mobile apps, email, Facebook, online shopping ... are all in the cloud. Cloud computing is a general term associated with the delivery of services through public networks such as the internet or private networks like corporate intranets. It enables companies to consume IT resources — hardware, software and storage — as a utility, just like electricity, rather than having to build and maintain infrastructures in-house. Projects that took years to implement and action take a matter of weeks or months with predictable budgets. More development and testing can happen at a lower cost and its effects can be seen on technologies such as artificial intelligence, robotics, machine learning, Internet of Things (IoT), blockchain and bitcoin. INNOVATION The flourishing innovation ecosystem in Kenya is drawing global interest, the most famous being mobile payment, which sprouted from the need for efficient funds transfer by urban workers to their rural kin. Kenyans are generally fast adopters of new technology and the youth are creative and not afraid of innovating. At present, Kenya is the clear leader in Africa in internet and mobile penetration — at 89.4 per cent last June — followed by Morocco (58 per cent), South Africa (56 per cent) and Nigeria (54 per cent). The continental average is 31.2 per cent. There are a number of global innovations that have spread to Africa and are significantly disrupting lives. The challenge lies in taking this further. For instance, the impact of Uber on transportation in many African cities is massive; however, we need to consider how to make the concept work in rural areas, which have their unique transport challenges. POSITIVE IMPACT Technologies such as cloud computing have made this possible. By reducing the cost of access, we can scale solutions to meet these challenges and make a positive impact on people’s lives. Africa can play a strong role in the fourth industrial revolution and create heavy wealth out of it. But this is only possible if technological innovations are used to address social challenges and tap the untouched market potential. Cloud computing leads to faster development and quicker learning, accelerating innovation by drastically removing costly overheads while localisation of technology helps with data security and regulatory compliance. ECONOMIC CHALLENGES Technology is the same all over the world; the difference lies in building solutions that answer and address local socio-economic challenges. The greatest value of technology is realised when it is applied across the value chain, leading to a massive impact on people. The endless new services can be launched from financial services, healthcare and even manufacturing. Agriculture being the backbone of many economies in Africa, deployment of artificial intelligence and robotics can help to multiply production and productivity and deliver more value to the farmer, the rest of value chain and the economy. In healthcare, they can enhance access to medical facilities, even for communities living in the hinterland. The same with control of finances, with the urgent need for less human intervention if we want to collect more taxes and have more revenue redistributed with minimum loss. TECHNOLOGY In Kenya, that is easily achievable as the fintech and telco digitalisation speed is among the fastest in Africa. Africa has a unique opportunity enabled by cloud technology; focus should be on using it in a manner that delivers maximum developmental impact. The onus is on Africans to make sure the best available platform and tools are used to get the most out of local data usage. Data tomorrow is what oil is today and the battle is on who will control it. Ms Nana is managing director, Kenya Hub (covering East, Central and West Africa) at Oracle. corine.mbiaketcha@oracle.com  