Many Kenyans felt a deep sense of betrayal when the opposition leader Raila Odinga shook hands and joined forces with President Uhuru Kenyatta to cement their newfound political truce. One stunned Kenyan on Twitter even wondered whether the real Raila had been killed and been replaced by a clone. Others speculated whether the State had captured the Opposition just as it had captured some sections of the electoral commission and the Judiciary. I was dumbfounded by the assertion by Raila’s advisers and strategists that the union between the two leaders was necessary to lessen ethnic tensions and avoid bloodshed in the country and that the merger will lead to much needed dialogue. May I remind them that, while dialogue is welcome and much needed, the country is hardly in a civil war situation — as it was in 2008, when Raila formed the Grand Coalition Government with President Mwai Kibaki after the disputed 2007 General Election. HISTORICAL INJUSTICESThe 2007/08 post-election violence was inflicted entirely by the police, not by civilians. And, unlike in 2008, the Opposition is not part of government; it has now, essentially, been reduced to an NGO. More importantly, it appears that the Raila-Uhuru pact has little, if anything, to do as regards what millions of Kenyans have been clamouring for: Electoral justice and an end to the tyranny of corruption and tribalism within government, among other demands. The pact seems to protect the interests of individual opposition leaders rather than the nation’s citizens. There was no talk of addressing historical injustices. Eurobond, SGR and other controversial debts and projects seem to have been swept under the carpet. COMMERCIAL INTERESTSIt appears the deal was signed with the specific aim of lifting an economic blockade by Jubilee on Nasa affiliates’ commercial interests and to stop the government from harassing individuals within the Opposition. The security details of Nasa politicians have now been reinstated. What’s more, Raila will now get the pension he was denied when Uhuru took office. The deal appears hollow; touchy-feely peace and reconciliation roadshows by the two leaders will not cure the diseases ailing this country. And as activist Boniface Mwangi tweeted, the pact seems like a licence for the opposition to loot. It also appears to suggest that rights and entitlements in Kenya are negotiable; they are not inalienable and protected by laws or the Constitution. IDEOLOGIESIt seems as if the struggles of the majority of Kenyans (the ‘Wanjikus’), who suffer the most from a mismanaged economy and bad governance, were forgotten after the handshake — which felt like a slap in the face of the millions of people who boycotted the October 26 election and who turned up for the ‘swearing-in’ of Raila on January 30. Those questioning this union are now viewed as spoilers or detractors — people who do not understand how politics works and do not recognise that political realignments are all part of a game that politicians play. What Raila and his handlers fail to acknowledge is that many of the people who did not show up at polling booths on October 26 did so because they believed that the electoral process was flawed, not because they wanted Raila to be president. But, as a colleague noted, once again, the Kenyan electorate has been duped and taken for a ride. None of the political party leaders stand for anything except their personal ambitions. CHANGESome argue that Raila often joins forces with his opponents — like Kibaki — for the greater good and that these unions can lead to positive outcomes, like a new constitution. But comparing the Raila-Kibaki union to the Raila-Uhuru one is stretching the imagination a bit too far. Besides, I, among many other Kenyans, have lost the appetite for Machiavellian machinations. We want a leader who means and does what he says. Perhaps Wandia Njoya and other Kenyans on Twitter are right: We, as a nation, should be grateful to Raila for all the sacrifices he made for this country but it is time for him to step aside and make room for those who are truly committed to change. HOPEYouth have a big role to play, as do political parties that are not ethnic fiefdoms. In these confusing times, we must not look for new false prophets; rather, we must stay the course and continue with the struggle. Kenyans have not yet become so cynical that they cannot imagine a just and prosperous future. rasna.warah@gmail.com  