Veteran Harambee Stars midfielder insists the team needs to approach Saturday's international friendly match against Comoros with a competitive attitude despite their opponent's low profile. Stars, who currently are under the tutelage of stand-in coach Stanley Okumbi, will confront the Islanders who are placed 132 on the Fifa rankings - 27 positions below Kenya, at the 45,240 seater Grand Stade de Marrakech on Saturday. The game kicks off at 4pm local time, which is 7pm Kenyan time. "This squad has lots of quality and I have to commend the federation for instilling professionalism in the way the team is handled," the Real Oviedo star, who last donned national team colours three years ago, told Nation Sport. "I can see in training there is tight competition for places and that is the attitude we should transfer into the game. If that happens, a win is almost certain. There is no such thing as a friendly, all the games are competitive because they contribute to something." Mariga, who has scored once and contributed five assists in eleven matches of Spain's second tier league, was initially summoned for national team duty by former Harambee Stars coach Paul Put. "Put believed his experience will be a big asset in big matches such as the forthcoming 2019 Africa Nations Cup qualifier. We have assessed him and he seems okay. I now want to see how he responds tomorrow (tonight)," Okumbi said. Against Comoros, the former Inter Milan star will be competing for a starting slot at the centre of the pack alongside his younger sibling and team captain Victor Wanyama. Other players seeking a start in the same positions are Anthony Akumu, Duncan Otieno and Johanna Omollo. Girona's Michael Olunga looks set to start alone upfront judging from the team's training session, with China-based Ayub Timbe, Zesco United's Jesse Were and Kenyan Premier League current top scorer Eric Kapaito who have both looked sharp in training, starting from the bench. Patrick Matasi is favourite to man the posts, behind a back four consisting the team's vice captain David Owino, David 'Cheche' Ochieng, Aboud Omar and Ismail Gonzalez. Stars defeated the Les Coelacantes by a single goal on aggregate the last time the two teams met in the qualifiers for the 2015 Africa Nations Cup. Comoros coach Amir Abdou has selected two players from that squad namely striker Solihi Ahmed, who plays for French second tier side Marseille Conzolat. Others are Chaker Alhadur, who is the other of the nine France-based players in this set up. Like Okumbi, Abdou is using this match to prepare for the 2019 Africa Nations Cup qualifier having lost their opening match away to Malawi in the first match of the group that also consists Cameroon and Morocco. Probable starting line-up Patrik Matasi, David Owino, David Ochieng, Ishmael Gonzalez, Aboud Omar, Victor Wanyama, Johanna Omollo, Clifton Miheso, Eric Johanna, Samuel Onyango, Michael Olunga.  