Olympic 5,000m champion Vivian Cheruiyot on Saturday said she will only retire if she wins the marathon gold in Tokyo 2020. Speaking during the colourful launch of the Oslo Petrol Station, her family’s investment along the Eldoret-Nairobi highway, Cheruiyot said she believes that the 2020 Tokyo Olympics will give her a perfect opportunity to bow out in style after a stellar career. "We decided to name this investment Oslo because that's where I first broke the 5,000m national record in 2007," said the athlete. "I have achieved much in athletics and having joined marathon recently, I'm still eyeing gold in 2020 Olympics before I hang my spikes," said Cheruiyot. Cheruiyot, who is also the Frankfurt Marathon champion, said she decided to invest her earnings in the rich oil field market after wide consultations. "It has been a long journey for us as a family and I really want to thank God for this far." Athletics Kenya president rt Gen Jackson Tuwei urged the athletes to always run clean and invest wisely. "I want to urge the athletes to continue practicing clean sport and invest wisely. Many have done this but we still have a few who want shortcuts which is wrong," said Tuwei. Uasin Gishu County governor Jackson Mandago, who was also present, urged other athletes to emulate Cheruiyot. "I want to urge the athletes to continue working hard and emulate Cheruiyot by investing while still young. Athletes earn good money and it's always good to invest because you will not be in sports forever," said the governor. STAR-STUDDED CAST Athletes who attended the event include three-time World Half Marathon champion Geoffrey Kamworor, former Boston Marathon champion Sharon Cherop, Lydia Rotich, long-distance athlete Betsy Saina among others. Former two-time world marathon champion Abel Kirui and Moses Masai were also among the guests. Cheruiyot joins other athletics like London Marathon champion Mary Keitany who owns Winstar Hotel in Eldoret town together with her husband Charles Koech. Former world half marathon record holder Lorna Kiplagat has invested in a modern training facility in Iten, Elgeyo Marakwet. Cheruiyot is preparing for this years’ London Marathon this month where she will be facing defending champion Keitany, 2017 Berlin Marathon winner Gladys Cherono and 2017 Honolulu Marathon holder Brigid Kosgei.  