Malkia Strikers duo Brackcides Agala and Violet Makuto are the surprise omissions from Kenya's travelling party ahead of the Women's Africa Club volleyball championship in Cairo. A seasoned blocker, team player and leader boasting four continental titles at club level, 32-year-old Agala's name was missing from the 14 Kenya Prisons players selected by coach David Lung'aho for this North African assignment. In her absence, Edith Wisa will be tasked with blocking duties during the 22-club continental tournament which serves off on Monday. Also, the left handed Makuto is missing in action from the Kenya Pipeline set up, reportedly for disciplinary reasons. "I can't use her in Egypt," Kenya Pipeline coach Japheth Munala confirmed to Nation Sport on Friday. "She's already competed in an international tournament in Dubai this year and you know the rules don't allow her to also play in Egypt." Nation Sport understands Makuto - who was voted the best player on the continent last year - has been sanctioned by the club for travelling to and competing in Asia without permission. The dependable duo's absence plus the availability of a star-studded competing cast consisting record holders Al Ahly (Egypt), ASEC Mimoas (Cote d'Ivoire) and Tunisia's Club Feminin de Carthage standing in their way, Kenya Pipeline and Kenya Prisons have their work cut out as far as snapping the recent dry spell on the continent is concerned. Prisons won the last of their five continental titles in Antananarivo in 2013 and Pipeline, who boast seven titles, were last crowned champions in 2005 in Nairobi. "Last year we claimed bronze in Tunisia. We were so close... it was the best performance we have put out in a while. I am hoping we can better that," Lung'aho said. Besides hosts Al Ahly, who have set up camp in Slovenia to prepare for their title defence, Prisons and Pipeline - who were kicked out of the Kasarani Indoor Arena earlier this week so that the venue can host the ITTF Tennis Championship - also have Nigeria Customs Volleyball Club, Cameroon's Police and Uganda's Vision Volleyball Club to battle with. The draw for this tournament will be held on Sunday. Other participating teams: Al Shams (Egypt), Harare City Volleyball Club (Zimbabwe), Rwanda Revenue Authority, INJS (Cameroon), AS DOUANES (Burundi), DGSP (Congo), Nkumba University (Uganda), BDF 6 Volleyball Club (Botswana), Bafia Volleyball Evolution (Cameroon), Muzinga (Burundi), V. Club (Democratic Republic of Congo), Nedjmet Riadhi (Algeria). Travelling teams: Pipeline: Trizah Atuka (captain), Noel Murambi, Leonida Kasaya, Celestine Nafula, Monica Biama, Naomi Too, Rose Jepkosgei, Yvonne Sinaida, Janet Wanja, Agrippina Kundu, Rael Tebla, Esther Wangeci, Lucy Akinyi, Christine Ngugi Coach: Japheth Munala Assistant coach: Margaret Indakala Prisons: Mercy Moim (captain), Joy Luseneka, Herma Jepyegon, Loise Jepkosgei, Edith Wisa, Emmaculate Chemtai, Shyrine Jepkemboi, Diana Khisa, Lorine Chebet, Everlyne Makuto, Sharon Chepchumba, Yvonne Wavinya, Elizabeth Wanyama, Judith Tarus. Coach: David Lung'aho Assistant coach: Josp Baraza   Prisons, under the tutelage of veteran coach David Lung’aho, will be seeking their sixth title.