A multiagency security team will raid posh homes and hotels at the Coast which are said to be linked to drug barons. Regional Coordinator Bernard Leparmarai said the security agencies will raid the posh homes and hotels where drug traffickers might be hiding the illegal drugs. “We know most drug cartels and suppliers roaming all over East Africa do not live in poor areas. We will come for you [whether you are] big or small fish. We will come to your homes and hotels. Drugs are smuggled into the country by sea and land,” Mr Leparmarai said during a press conference at the regional police headquarters in Mombasa. SNIFFER DOGS Mr Leparmarai said authorities will start using sniffer dogs to search luggage transported into the country through the borders. He said also urged bus owners and operators of sea vessels including ships to search goods ferried into the country. “Don’t just close your eyes. What comes into your vessels should be something acceptable. Kenyans must police their country,” he added. Mr Leparmarai the heroin seized on Thursday was smuggled into the country from Tanzania through the Lunga Lunga border. The drug which was estimated to have a street value of Sh30 million was ferried into the country on Thursday evening by three suspected Tanzanian businessmen who were arrested by a multiagency security team in a Mombasa hotel. ARRESTED The three who are in police custody were arrested a few hours after checking into the hotel with the drugs. The suspects will be arraigned in court Monday. “We recovered the heroin in a bag through a tip off from good citizens who suspected the three. The suitcases have false bottoms. The weight of the heroin is 10.02kg valued at Sh30 million. The drugs can be consumed by 2000,000 people which could impact negatively on their lives,” Mr Leparmarai said. He said police will remain vigilant to arrest drug traffickers smuggling the illegal stuff through Kenyan borders. “They are using ships or roads to smuggle the drugs. The government does not have money to rehabilitate 200,000 people so we urge Kenyans to be vigilant and say no to drugs. Report any suspicious person to the authorities,” he urged  