Nairobi will have an additional 20 multi-storeyed retail markets in the next two years to ease pressure on existing facilities. The move is expected to provide extra trading space and rid the streets of hawkers. Their costs, however, will become clear once the tendering process begins. The new facilities will be constructed by the county government in conjunction with the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Nairobi chapter. This follows a partnership between the chamber’s Nairobi chapter and the Business Advocacy Fund (BAF) to draft a Markets and Infrastructure Bill (M&I) to address the challenges posed by an acute shortage of retail space in the capital. BAF supports business organisations, trade unions and civil society groups with an interest in supporting firms to engage in private-public dialogue, and to advocate improvements in the business environment with a view to putting in place policies that will lead to more investment and, ultimately more jobs. According to Nairobi Trade Executive Allan Igambi, the Bill aims at enforcing set standards in construction and management of all retail markets across the city. “We are trying to ensure that all our markets adhere to set standards, including safety guidelines. We, for example, want to ensure all our markets are storied in order to increase space and ensure safety and health standards are observed,” said Mr Igambi. Currently, Nairobi has 20 open-air markets and 23 large markets. According to the draft 2018-2022 County Integrated Development Plan (CIDP), the physical planning ratio shows there should be a market for every 25,000 people. Based on this, Nairobi has a deficit of 126 markets. The plan, therefore, proposes construction of an additional 20 outlets to be set up in the County Medium Term Plan (MTP III). “Westlands market for example will have three floors each holding 140 stalls. The construction plan also has a provision for two extra floors to take care of the growing population of hawkers. It should be ready in three months’ time,” he stated. READ: Sonko says hawkers only free to sell in city centre after 2pm The chamber’s chief executive Nemaisa Kiereini told the Sunday Nation they had interviewed small and micro traders in the county including hawkers, jua kali, and boda boda associations to determine the key concerns affecting an enabling environment for business. The traders cited lack of access to adequate markets and secure facilities for them to conduct business. “They also complained that city county officials harass them for conducting business in the streets, but fail to give them alternative places,” said Ms Kiereini. If approved by Nairobi County assembly, the M&I Bill will put in place a structure for planning, development of market standards and their funding as well as construction. It will also provide the framework for maintenance, management and governance of market infrastructure in the county. Once enacted, the Bill will ensure inclusion and involvement of Micro and Small Enterprises in the planning for markets and allocation of spaces. Service delivery will be improved, resulting in increased revenue to the county government. If enacted, the proposed law will lead to the development of standards for markets and their maintenance with a view to improving both public health and safety standards. In the meantime, the chamber has developed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Mike Sonko-led county government  to establish channels of dialogue on issues that affect opportunities for enabling environment for business in the county. The County government will engage the County Executive Committee Member for Trade during the implementation of this project. The Business Advocacy Fund supports business organisations, trade unions and civil society organisations with an interest in supporting business to engage in private public dialogue and to advocate improvements in the business environment in the country with a view to putting in place policies that will lead to more investment and, ultimately, more jobs.  