Three principals of the National Super Alliance (Nasa) have vowed to stay put in the opposition amid suspicions threatening to tear the movement apart in the wake of its leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta agreeing to work together. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula said they would play the primary opposition role in the Constitution – oversight of government – should Mr Odinga and the ODM party be co-opted into the government. “As Nasa leaders, we will remain united going forward to provide leadership to our supporters and play our first duty of overseeing Jubilee administration because we are the alternative government” said Mr Mudavadi. He said it was wrong for ODM to treat other Nasa parties as junior partners, comparing it to an elder brother who unfairly muzzles his young siblings and doesn’t value their opinions in family matters. NATIONAL DIALOGUE Nasa’s agenda for national dialogue was about the social and economic issues affecting ordinary people, the leaders said, adding that this would not stop them from playing their constitutional role of holding the government to account. In apparent reference to the recent Uhuru-Raila deal, the three said the dialogue had been trivialised as a defection to Jubilee or a merger of both the opposition and government. “Dialogue is not bad but it is different from quitting Nasa. When our friends in ODM initiate dialogue, it doesn’t mean the opposition must die,” Mr Mudavadi said, adding that the talks should not suffocate Nasa in the process. ECONOMIC WOES Mr Musyoka said the purpose of pursuing dialogue was in the interest of all Kenyans affected by the worsening economic problems of high cost of living and ballooning external debt. He assured Nasa supporters that the four principals were united and keen on keeping the Opposition coalition intact. “We haven’t forgotten that our election victory was stolen by Jubilee last year and our main focus is to ensure that issues of electoral injustice are dealt with once and for all,” the former Vice President said at Kathivo Market in Kitui West. He said bad weather had forced Mr Odinga to cancel a flight that would have enabled him attend the meeting. He said opinion was divided on Mr Odinga’s move to engage in dialogue with the President without consulting them but that Nasa would emerge stronger. The Nasa trio addressed three campaign rallies in Kitui west where they drummed up support for Wiper party candidate Edith Vethi Nyenze, the widow of the late area MP Francis Nyenze in the March 26th by election. INVESTED A LOT “We have invested a lot in Nasa. We therefore cannot allow the coalition to die; I am the glue that holds Nasa together” declared Mr Musyoka. Supporting the Uhuru-Raila Peace Initiative, he called for an all-inclusive consultation. “We are ready for an all-inclusive consultation that will ensure peace and stability for the country. We would not like chaos in Kenya,” he said. Mr Wetang’ula said dialogue must be given a chance for Kenya to get out of the political impasse arising from the 2017 presidential election dispute. “Dialogue is not an act of cowardice, it is an act of patriotism” he said, adding that the 2010 Constitution would be amended to foster national unity in Kenya. Earlier, Mr Musyoka’s allies Makueni Governor Kivutha and Kitui senator Enoch Wambua said Nasa was a coalition of the willing and that those uncomfortable should take a walk without rocking the boat from within. “We are all keen on building Nasa but those who want to leave are fee to do so” said Mr Wambua.  