AT ROYAL DAR ES SALAAM, MOROCCO Kenya's boys team finished in fourth position overall, losing the third place to Uganda by one shot as this year's All Africa Junior Golf Championship came to a close at the par 72 Royal Dar es Salaam Golf Club course on Friday. During the final round played under sunshine, Muthaiga's Zubair Khan fired five over par 77 while both Agil Is-Haq and Daniel Kiragu carded six over par 78 each for the 233 which gave them an all rounds total of 976 gross. "We needed to par the remaining three holes to beat Uganda as we had started the day,'' said team coach John Liefland. "If we played like today in all the four days, we would have finished second very easily,'' he added. The fourth place is an improvement from last year's sixth place in Harare Zimbabwe. On the other hand, Uganda produced two 75 and an 81 for 231 to take their grand total to 975. However, walking away with the title with an excellent score of 866 was South Africa, who posted 216 in the closing round. Contributing their scores were Deon Germishuys - who shot level par 72, while Martin Vorster added one under par 71 with the third score, a 73 coming from Detzel Werner. The South Africans beat hosts Morocco by 55 shots despite the Morocco boys having tried to reduce the margin with two impressive rounds of 72 by Mehdg Fakori and a two over par 74 by El Kharraz Amine. It was however the 77 by Nizar Mohammed which pulled them back. It was a good finish for Morocco who have embarked on a junior programme over the past five years. Meanwhile, last year's runners up Zimbabwe finished in fifth place with a total of 1026 after a poor 251 in the closing round. Like the South Africans, Zimbabwe under the veteran professional Roger Baylis, had a new line-up. However, their girls came second with a total of 686 after a closing score of 169 though well behind the South African girls who won by a total of 622, while Kenya was fourth on 721 gross, behind hosts Morocco on 690, but ahead of Nigeria who posted 728. A total of 13 countries participated in the year's championship where eight of them fielded both boys and girls.  