Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka on Saturday said he is not perturbed by Nasa leader Raila Odinga meeting with President Uhuru Kenyatta. He said his “heart is at peace”, despite some Nasa leaders criticising Mr Odinga and some accusing him of betrayal. PEACE He spoke in Mua Hills, Machakos County, at the funeral of Mr Mulili Ndeti, the father-in-law of former Kathiani MP Wavinya Ndeti. Mr Musyoka said he has been championing for dialogue since last year when he returned to the country from Germany, where he had been with his ill wife. “About our country, we have agreed to meet as Nasa on Monday and know what exactly happened yesterday (Friday), but my heart is at peace,” he said. 'BETRAYAL' Mavoko MP Patrick Makau accused Mr Odinga of betraying Mr Musyoka. He said the meeting between Mr Kenyatta and Mr Odinga showed their self-centredness against the course of justice. “Time has come for Uhuru to call his team and Raila to do the same then dialogue about Kenya. Kenya is for everyone not the two individuals. “Kenyans died because of this course; Kenyans were maimed because of this course; and for what end? 10 percent? “Hon Kalonzo, the field is now open. We now give you authority to go meet Ruto, Gideon and any other leaders,” said Mr Makau. DIALOGUE Ms Ndeti said Mr Musyoka was the pioneer of dialogue and thus was the message to the foot soldiers. She said if only Nasa headed Mr Musyoka’s advice before, the many lives would not have been lost during the struggle. “I wish Raila and Uhuru heeded our party leader's call,” said Ms Ndeti. The leaders said a planned meeting on 16th March for the community leaders will chat a clear path going forward. POSTS Meanwhile, Makueni MP Daniel Maanzo wants two ODM leaders in the National Assembly to relinquish their posts, saying they are no longer in the Opposition. He said Minority Leader John Mbadi and Minority Whip Junet Mohamed should relinquish their posts following the Mr Odinga’s meeting with Mr Kenyatta. “Already, it is evident that ODM and its MPs have joined Jubilee,” said Mr Maanzo, a close ally of Mr Musyoka. He said other leaders should be selected to represent the minority in the National Assembly.  Additional reporting by Pius Maundu.  