National Resistance Movement activist Miguna Miguna appeared to have lost the second round of the battle to unconditionally reclaim his Kenyan citizenship after the State finally managed to deport him to Dubai last Wednesday. But the indefatigable son of Magina village scored a crucial moral victory against the two Kenyan rulers he loves to call the ‘despotic duo’. The kind of inhumane treatment Dr Miguna was subjected to once again brought out the cruel face of the Uhuru Kenyatta regime, which has also been widely criticised by human rights groups for the killing of civilians during recent protests by opposition supporters. The forcible night flight on an Emirates plane followed an indignifying 24 hours during which he was held inside a small toilet at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. DRUGGEDA toxicology report by the doctor who examined Dr Miguna upon arrival in Dubai might yet corroborate Mr Miguna’s complaint that he was drugged by State agents before being bundled onto that plane. Immigration has sought to deny holding him in an illegal area at Kenya’s biggest airport. But photos of Dr Miguna and his luggage in the toilet posted on social media and the account of events by a court-appointed human rights official who was with him suggest Immigration is most likely stretching the truth. Media reports attributed the redeployment of the senior police officer who commanded the deportation operation to, among others, Dr Miguna’s detention in an illegal area, indicating officials can’t just help tying themselves in knots on this matter. REPORTERS ASSAULTED In any case, the State lost any semblance of credibility the moment it sent in thuggish paramilitary officers to chase away and maim journalists who were covering the Miguna drama. Were it not for an excellent piece of journalism by Citizen TV’s Jeff Koinange, who filmed the final episode of the first deportation attempt right to the plane’s door, Kenyans would never have known how crude the police operation was. The presence of Mr Koinange, who was travelling to Hamburg, Germany, on that plane predictably stirred conspiracy theories on social media. SOCIAL MEDIA But before casting any aspersions you need to stop for a minute and think what would have happened to Dr Miguna between the airport’s clearance area where a menacing group of plain clothes officers pounced on him and the door of the Emirates plane if Mr Koinange weren’t in there to train his camera on them.Imagine the grim information black hole if the only pictures available on the social media were those posted by Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria on his Facebook timeline, showing a jaded Dr Miguna behind him on the eventual Emirates deportation flight. Think about the last time you went to bed feeling hungry for that news and the closest to a seemingly credible piece you woke up to was a photo of Mr Kuria posing on some scene somewhere!jkotieno@ke.nationmedia.com; @otienootieno  