Sixteen-time Kenyan Premier League champions Gor Mahia will face SuperSport United of South Africa in the Caf Confederation Cup play-offs round. Gor dropped to the second-tier continental football competition after losing 1-0 on aggregate to Tunisia's Esperance in the first round of Caf Champions League qualifiers. The first leg of the play-off encounter will be played on April 6-8 with the Kenyan champions hosting the opener. K’Ogalo were drawn against the South African top flight side during the draw for the competition held at the Ritz Carlton, Cairo, Egypt on Wednesday. Gor were seeded in Pot C alongside ASEC Mimosas (Cote d’Ivoire), Mounana (Gabon), Young Africans (Tanzania), Williamsville (Cote d’Ivoire), Aduana (Ghana), UD Songo (Mozambique), MFM (Nigeria), Plateau (Nigeria), Rayon Sport (Rwanda), Generation Foot (Senegal) and Bidvest (South Africa) while their opponents were in Pot A. Teams in Pot D were drawn against Pot B while Pot A teams against Pot C, the aggregate winner proceeds to the group stages of the tourney. The teams were ranked according to their performances in the last five editions of Africa's Interclub competitions in 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013. “We are going to do well in the Confederation Cup, that I am sure of because we have a good team and we are going to prepare well,” said striker Jacques Tuyisenge after landing from Tunisia on Tuesday. SuperSport, who qualified to the playoff from the first round by eliminating Angolan side Petro de Luanda, edged out Gor's eternal rivals AFC Leopards in the same competition in 2014. Gor dropped to the second tier competition after bowing out of the Champions League at the hands of Tunisian giants Esperance 1-0 aggregate. On their way to the playoffs, they saw off Equatoguinean champions Leones Vegetarianos 3-1 on aggregate. The Kenyan champions beat the Western Africa side 2-0 at home and played out to a 1-1 draw in the reverse tie. Meanwhile, Madagascan side Fosa Juniors, who knocked out AFC Leopards will play Ghanaian side Aduana Stars.   K'Ogalo went down 1-0 to Tunisia’s Esperance Sunday at the Stade Olympique Rades.