It is Good Friday, a strange name for a day that is associated with so much pain and suffering, which Jesus endured before he was crucified. Several suggestions exist on why the day is called ‘good’. One is that ‘good’ derives from God, as in God’s Friday. Another suggestion is that it’s just that – a good day when Jesus’ crucifixion brought salvation to fallen humankind. Yet another suggestion is that ‘good’ is a variant of ‘holy’. The entire week that ends on Saturday with Holy Saturday is designated Holy Week. EASTERBe that as it may, the purpose of this story is rather different, as it is more concerned with the wider meaning of Easter. We can look at the meaning of Easter from two angles: the strictly spiritual angle and the contemporary point of view. Let us first look at the current events in Kenya and their relevance to Easter. Of top priority is the theme of betrayal. Remember Judas betraying Jesus with a kiss after receiving 30 pieces of silver from the scribes and Pharisees? Kenya’s political scene is rife with claims of betrayal, the most infamous being the chickening out of three Nasa co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula from the “swearing-in” ceremony of Mr Raila Odinga as the “people’s president”. BETRAYALThe three explained why they were missing in action at the high-stakes event, which the Interior ministry described as treason. Be that as it may, the co-principals’ AWOL act appears to have given Mr Odinga the perfect excuse to hit back. Quite contrary to the Jesus spirit of turning the other cheek, the Nasa leader left his co-principals out in the cold when he held secret talks with President Uhuru Kenyatta, culminating in the March 9 handshake. The co-principals declared, in turn, that their being kept in the dark about the pre-handshake talks signified betrayal by Mr Odinga. Mr Wetang’ula threatened a “messy” divorce. It does not end there; Deputy President William Ruto’s side of the Jubilee coalition is also reading treachery in the pre-handshake talks that excluded their leader. 2022 ELECTIONSIn response to perceived betrayal within the main political parties, realignments are forming that could have far-reaching implications for the 2022 poll. The three Nasa leaders are not the only ones smarting from the treachery of the handshake. ‘General’ Miguna Miguna – the self-styled leader of Nasa’s National Resistance Movement that was formed in the wake of the disputed August 2017 election – is also screaming betrayal at the handshake. He has a litany of grievances, including Mr Odinga’s silence as State agents deported him to Canada against court orders. Dr Miguna has accused Mr Odinga of betraying victims of electoral injustice, namely, Mr Chris Msando, Stephanie Moraa and Baby Pendo. He has resisted State pressure to apply for a Kenyan passport since, he says, his national ID grants him citizenship rights. SERVANT LEADERSHIPClearly, the Judas factor is all-pervasive, detracting from the Easter spirit of forgiveness, which should be the focus of a feast symbolising not just Jesus’ victory over death, but is also the ultimate symbol of servant leadership. By dying on the cross, Jesus demonstrated what servant leadership is all about – a far cry from Kenyans’ selfish and vindictive leadership style. Politics aside, today is the climax of Lenten. In some parts of the world like the Philippines, enactment of crucifixion rituals will be taking place – a bizarre tradition that the Catholic Church frowns upon. Strangely, neither the Church nor the Philippines government has done anything to deter the act. CRUCIFIXIONChristians opposed to this bizarre ritual are of the view that Jesus Christ died once and for all to save humankind from the slavery of sin, rendering any act of crucifixion meaningless. Worldwide thousands of Catholics will be engaged in processions of The Way of the Cross (also called Stations of the Cross) where Christians meditate on 14 events that focus on the sufferings of Jesus before his crucifixion, death and resurrection. Easter signifies hope and many Christian countries mark it with beautifully-decorated eggs. Although the Easter eggs are associated with pagan festivals, for Christians, they symbolise new life in Jesus as he emerged from the tomb. How one wishes Easter 2018 would hatch a spirit of forgiveness among warring politicians for Kenya’s sake! dorothy@editorialcentre.com  