Fiery lawyer and self-declared National Resistance Movement (NRM) general Miguna Miguna has taken his campaign "to liberate Kenya" to the UK. Dr Miguna landed at Heathrow Airport on Thursday at 6.30pm for the tour that will see him give a public lecture at the University of Oxford and meet Kenyans living in London. His security clearance was delayed for unknown reasons until 9.30pm and, during this time, he kept reassuring his hosts that all is well. LECTURE “Join Dr Miguna Miguna at this event to engage, deliberate and consider pragmatic, multifaceted, complex and speedy ways of leading the long-suffering Kenyans to freedom,” reads the event's invite on Eventbrite. “This meeting is open to all Kenyans of good will who wish to positively engage with Dr Miguna Miguna. Let’s spread the word lets match forward. There no reverse gear.” The University of Oxford event was organised by the faculty of Law, according to the lawyer. According to organisers, the students' event sold out in 30 minutes. Today (Friday), he is scheduled to attend several international media interviews, including a morning slot on BBC. Dr Miguna, who has dismissed the newfound love and unity deal between President Kenyatta and National Super Alliance (Nasa) leader Raila Odinga, says he will carry on with his resistance movement. “The #NRMKe isn't "isolated" by the "handshake”, he said on Twitter. “The #NRMKe is not involved. We are not going to solve intractable societal ills through handshakes. We are going to do so through structural changes in governance.” Kenya’s governance and leadership case, he said, is a choice between the “rule of law or despotism.” Upon his arrival at the Heathrow Airport Terminal 2, he was received by members of Nasa UK team, led by chairman George Osore. RETURN Dr Miguna is one of the Nasa leaders who paid the ultimate price of 'swearing-in' Mr Odinga as the 'people’s president' at Uhuru Park, Nairobi, on January 30. He was arrested, locked up incommunicado, moved from one police station to the other and deported despite a High Court order barring the same. The High Court on February 26 ordered his return to Kenya and suspended Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i’s declaration that Dr Miguna is a prohibited immigrant. Justice Enoch Chacha Mwita further suspended the cancellation of Dr Miguna’s passport by the immigration boss Gordon Kihalangwa. He ordered the Immigration Department to facilitate Dr Miguna’s return from Canada, including arranging for his visa. The judge, at the same time, put on hold Dr Matiang’i’s gazette notice declaring the NRM, a wing of Nasa, a criminal gang. Judge Mwita ruled that Dr Miguna's rights were violated by his deportation. The Court of Appeal rejected government request to temporarily stop the High Court orders. The case is ongoing. The barrister, who practises in Canada, said he would land in Nairobi on March 26. "The despots will fall, and they will fall starting March 26th when I arrive in Kenya. The Lunga Lunga dance for liberation will take place," Dr Miguna told the Nation at Heathrow.  Additional report by Gabriel Otach in London.   Court of Appeal judges decline to block directive by High Court judge Luka Kimaru.