The government programme to issue every student with a unique identification number is not only timely but also judicious, and long overdue. This is because the country will finally have a database containing students’ basic information, making it easy to track their progress through the school system all the way to university and the workplace. The system is designed to eliminate identity theft and fraud, including the acquisition of fake academic credentials, besides giving a clearer view of the population and other demographic indicators. BIRTH CERTIFICATESHowever, its implementation is chaotic, haphazard and uncoordinated, leading to frustration and fury among the parents struggling to acquire the necessary documentation to facilitate the registration. Millions of parents without birth certificates for their children are having to apply for them from the Registrar of Births and Deaths, creating a stampede by applicants. The issuing offices are struggling to cope with the scramble because most are grappling with staff shortages and were, apparently, unprepared for the rush. INTERNETIn schools, teachers are overwhelmed by the sheer volume of information that they have to upload to the National Education Information Management System. Naturally, they are working under stress because most schools do not have reliable Internet connectivity and the system has been slowed by the high traffic. No wonder, then, that since the registration began in February, only half of the targeted 12 million learners have been registered as the March 31 deadline looms. FAILUREFor the full benefits of the new system, the government must ensure that the registration is seamless, systematic and easy. It must begin by making the deadline flexible to give more parents ample time to obtain the necessary documents and deliver them to schools. Teachers must also be given a friendly environment to work in so that they can upload all the information without undue pressure or sacrificing teaching time. If the chaos in the registration persists, the system will flop and the consequences will be felt for years to come.  