Today more than ever before, it is clear climate change and all its effects are here with us and it is time to put into place resilience measures. Communicating climate change is complex and multifaceted and perhaps that explains why as a country we are now reacting to the change as opposed to being proactive. For Kenya to be called a resilient country, citizens should be able to see that ability to prepare for the worst and bounce back faster and stronger when hit by climate related shocks. This is possible when a county has what it takes to build and implement home grown solutions by strengthening ability to make decisions about their own future. PUBLIC PARTICIPATION Deliberate measures should be taken to invest in the people who shape those decisions. This kind of transformational change can only take place if there is investment in capacity-building for young Kenyans who are ready to take a leading position in addressing the climate challenges. Young people in Kenya are set to inherit the predicted effects of climate change and for that reason they should be fully engaged in determining the future of their built environments through participatory techniques. This may not be a walk in the park because connecting youth to a sense of urgency in climate change represents one of the largest hurdles to effectively engaging them in climate resilience planning. SOLUTION In most cases, the young people living in rural and urban poor low income become the most vulnerable populations to disasters and climate risks. Sadly, they are yet to be taken into mainstream climate adaptation, planning and policy. We have not clearly seen the enthusiasm to solve this problem from concerned institutions. There is need to map the institutions and that should be involved in progressing this agenda in a structured manner ranging from governmental sector, civil society, universities and private sector. The youth are part of the solution. Young people can be encouraged to engage with communities for collective action and improvement of infrastructures in order to assist long-term resilience building. ECONOMY They have what it takes to share and disseminate knowledge through social networks. Through this knowledge, they will be able to understand the effects of climate change and therefore create conditions for adaptation to the changes. In conclusion, climate change is a threat to development, the economy and the health of the planet in general. Extreme weather is costing trillions of dollars and endangering lives and livelihoods all around the world. Engaging youth on matters climate change should be a matter of priority. Let us establish knowledge gaps and come up with ways to empower this generation. Dr Kiambati is a management consultant and a senior lecturer at Karatina University. kellenkiambati@gmail.com. Dr Kariuki is a social scientist, management consultant and a lecturer at Karatina University. annkariuki02@yahoo.com  