Two weeks ago when the much anticipated Black Panther movie starring our own Lupita Nyong’o came to town, my children insisted that we watch it together on the big screen. Never mind that the movie sold out on most nights and I was only able to secure front-row seats — great iat a music concert but terrible at the movies. However, the movie did not disappoint. As an African woman who grew up on a steady menu of white superheroes like Superman, Wonder Woman, Six Million Dollar Man, Black Panther will do for young people today what those earlier movies could not. It will give all children, but with specific reference to children of colour, heroes they can relate to and just as important, look up to. They will see themselves in the delicious chocolate colouring, curly hair and tribal make-up. They will hear themselves in the Xhosa and Nigerian accent. As an African woman, I was particularly keen to see the portrayal of women in the film. While the film centres around prince T’Challa who must return home to take the throne when his father dies, the women do not play second fiddle to him. In many instances, they steal the show. They are strong, bold, courageous and still feminine. They are the anti-thesis to the images of strong mama Africa, bent over, tilling a hard and parched land, walking long distances to fetch water, bearing the burdens of her children and community. This woman has suffered under dehumanising cultural practices like forced early marriage and  circumcision. She has not heard her own voice. The women of Black Panther challenge that stereotype. They question what they do not understand, and they fight side by side with the men. Young girls across Africa, will hopefully believe as a result that they too can do and be, all that. And while the hair industry in Africa is not about to slow down, the movie does make very strong statements about “natural” hair. It’s all there in the tight curls, braids, cornrows and dreadlocks. The film is set in mythical Wakanda, somewhere in Africa, not too different from Eddie Murphy’s Zamunda in Coming to America. While the west, as told by newscasters view the country as a typical African impoverished nation, the film begins to explore the wealth, beauty, and technological splendour of Wakanda. Not a long shot, after-all, Africa did give the world many technological inventions from the pyramids to M-Pesa. Underscoring this, is particularly significant given the recent ignorant sentiments of US President Trump. When the only images the world gets to see of Africa are of malnourished children, overfed dictators, and potholes, this feeds the stereotype that we are a basket-case deserving of pity and derision. Then there are the men of the movie. While we are caught bemoaning the lack of back bone in the ‘boy-child’ who is likely to hide behind his sister’s skirts should they come across danger, the men of Wakanda are responsible, strong, powerful and human. They bleed. However, like the warriors of old, in the fireside tales our grandmothers told us, they protect their own. They own their honour. Not since the African freedom fighters, most of whom are long dead, not since Barack Obama, has there been such a positive, powerful singular image of African maleness. From Tokyo to London to Australia, the world will see a new image of black political power that is not a musician or athlete. And it is long overdue. Filmmaker Ryan Coogler said of the film in Rolling Stone magazine, “I think the question that I’m trying to ask and answer in Black Panther is, ‘What does truly mean to be African?’” And he went there. Tackling themes like racism, colonialism, leadership, the role and place of women, immigration, African American identity, it’s no mean feat that he was able to do that in less than two hours. When the film ended, a few moviegoers clapped. Many just sat there, taking in the credits and the warm glow that had been cast back onto them. The message was clear. Africa has much to celebrate as well as many challenges. Africa does need heroes. Fortunately, there is an African hero. You can be one.  carole@carolemandi.com   Learning to tie shoe-laces was such a struggle for me that it is one of my earliest, most unpleasant memories.