The meeting between President Uhuru Kenyatta and National Super Alliance leader Raila Odinga marked the end of a political chapter, Deputy President William Ruto has said.Speaking a day after the meeting, Mr Ruto said it was time for the country to start healing and create bridges of friendship. “After the meeting between the two leaders yesterday, it was clear that the chapter of political competition in the country is over. This is the time to work for the electorate and forget about politics and elections until 2022,” he said on Saturday. COMPLAINING “This is the moment for our country to stand together and build bridges of friendship, brotherhood and unity so as to make this country progress.” While praising the opposition chief for "the bold move", the deputy president urged the other Nasa principals – Musalia Mudavadi, Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang’ula – to work with the government "for the benefit of the country". He asked them to stop complaining about not being included in the talks and appreciate the direction the country was taking to unite communities. DIVISION “I want to tell my brothers across the divide that this is not the time to say I was not consulted. This is the time to unify the country. I heard the two leaders say ethnic division is going to end. We are the people to bring it to an end and it starts now,” Mr Ruto said during a funds drive at Tabor Hill Catholic Church in Ol  Joro Orok Constituency, Nyandarua County. He was accompanied by Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia, senators Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo-Marakwet), Mwangi Githiomi (Nyandarua), John Kinyua (Laikipia), MPs Catherine Waruguru (Laikipia), Michael Muchira (Ol Joro Orok), Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu), Amos Kimunya (Kipipiri)  and Njuguna Kiaraho (Ol Kalou). Water Cabinet Secretary Simon Chelugui was also present. DIALOGUE The leaders welcomed the decision by the President to engage the opposition leader, saying the two should work together in achieving the government’s Agenda Four plan. Senator Murkomen said the process for dialogue between the two leaders started long before the Friday meeting. He said the meeting was a result of the government’s plan to unify the country. FAULTED “This was planned yesterday. The President started it earlier. The President represents the whole government so people should not be worried that his deputy was not present,” Mr Murkomen said. The senator, however, faulted the three Nasa co-principals for saying they were not consulted. He said they had themselves to blame after Mr Odinga seized the initiative to work with the government "since they had earlier turned down efforts to bring them on board". TRAITORS “I heard the three complaining of being left out of the talks. They were the first to be approached but turned us down fearing that they would be branded traitors,” he said. Ms Waruguru claimed the three principals had planned to issue a statement ditching Nasa yesterday before their plans were scuppered by Mr Odinga’s meeting with the President.  