what is Raila Odinga’s end game? That is the question that has occupied the minds of his detractors and admirers in the last few days since his surprise U-turn that saw him pledge to work with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Mr Odinga’s political history is replete with what some call betrayal, while others say he is a saviour in times of need. DONORS Even as details of what will actually be the role of Mr Odinga emerge, there are lingering uncertainties on what his political moves will be in Mr Kenyatta’s succession politics. It has emerged that the committee led by Mr Martin Kimani and Mr Paul Mwangi has been looking at options of a possible office for the former prime minister. Sources indicate that they may eventually settle for Upper Hill, whose cost will be met by the government and donors. STATESMAN Sources indicated that President Kenyatta, as part of the government’s agenda, will be deploying Mr Odinga to African hotspots as his envoy. This would make Mr Odinga an elder statesman who plays in international circles, more like what former presidents of other countries do. Kenya has never played this role despite its strategic position in Africa as it lacks active former presidents like, say, Nigeria, Ghana and South Africa. It is believed that Mr Odinga will also have an office in Addis Ababa, where he will work with the African Union. CAUTIOUS As part of the settlement with Mr Kenyatta, Mr Odinga will receive full benefits under the Retirement Benefits (Deputy President and Designated State Officers) Act. Though the Act stipulates that one has to cease being in active politics, it is becoming increasingly hard to visualise Mr Odinga leaving the scene. “We know his history in politics and that is why we are cautious. When a section of the road has had many accidents, safety authorities always put warning signs. Mr Odinga should understand that Jubilee has political commitments it intends to keep,” said Senate Deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki. NEW PARTY Professor Kindiki revisited Mr Odinga’s past to buttress his point. In 1996, Mr Odinga, after years of trying to wrestle the chairmanship of Ford Kenya from chairman Kijana Wamalwa, abandoned the party of his father and formed the National  Development Party. Ford Kenya, having lost the support of Luoland, failed miserably in the 1997 General Election. MERGER Shortly after the polls, won by incumbent Daniel arap Moi, opposition leaders Mwai Kibaki and Mr Odinga pledged to work together, only for Mr Odinga to merge his outfit with Kanu. In 2002, he abandoned Kanu and joined key figures, including Vice-President George Saitoti and Mr William ole Ntimama, leaving Kanu exposed at its hour of need. Just before the 2002 elections, he abandoned Mr Simeon Nyachae and teamed up with Mr Kibaki. COALITION He was have frosty relations once in government with Mr Kibaki over an unmet Memorandum of Understanding. They acrimoniously parted ways in 2005, only for the two to form a coalition government after the controversial 2007 elections. Shortly after, Mr Odinga was at war with his erstwhile political ally William Ruto, with whom he is yet to reconcile.  