The much acclaimed handshake at Harambee House was greeted with more relief than celebration by the public. For months just about everyone was hoping for dialogue between ‘His Excellencies’ yet when it abruptly happened most were dumbfounded. A week later many remain sceptical and some cynical about its purpose and direction. This scepticism and reserve can be attributed to the knowledge that we have been here before. REFORMS We have talked about reconciliation and nation-building for half a century but never been sincere. Every reform process that could have addressed the nation’s ills has been hijacked and emasculated by the political class since 1997. No wonder, then, some consider this a deal between two dynasties judging by the makeup of the negotiating team. While it may not be a ‘nusu mkate’ arrangement there will be many opportunities to grab the crumbs and slices from the Jubilee table. DIVERSITYThe two gentlemen have promised to unite the nation but never disclosed who divided it. During this holy season of Lent, it would have been fitting to hear ‘Mea Culpa’ admissions rather than heaping the blame on ‘diversity’. Diversity is not a curse; it is a blessing that we have not embraced. The whole of God’s creation is extraordinarily diverse and that is what makes it beautiful, wonderful and enriching. America’s success was built on its diversity where there were opportunities for everyone. It is now likely to be torn apart by the racist and xenophobic policy of Donald Trump. TRIBALISM Diversity has not led us to the precipice; ethnic politics has in its refusal to embrace and include diverse ethnic and interest groups. The audit that the two men speak of must acknowledge this as the root of our problems and their part in that rot. The statement from Nasa’s People’s Assembly Organising Committee was more specific in admitting that the nature of the crisis is politics and tribalism, as ‘tribalism is an unholy alliance between communities and their leaders to further the interests of the latter at the expense of other Kenyans, a continuation of the divide and rule’. David Ndii also stated that whatever process of dialogue takes place it must be by the people, for the people and ultimately transform this fragile nation. Put another way, the handshake may have symbolised a ceasefire but there are no grounds to believe that a joint secretariat will deliver Kenyans to the 'promised land'. PUBLIC PARTICIPATION The political class are but one interested party and they cannot be trusted to put the interests of Kenya ahead of their personal ambitions and greed. There are questions too about civil society, the business community, media, trade unions and the religious bodies as the public perception is that they are all aligned to either Jubilee or Nasa. But perhaps that is a good place to start the discussion; with no strong players and all ready to acknowledge their limitations, prejudice and brokenness. Yet, all of them must sit at the same table knowing that things must change quickly. Mr Uhuru Kenyatta and Mr Raila Odinga have taken one step forward but they must now allow the rest to join them before proceeding on the journey of justice and nation building. Fr Dolan is a Catholic priest based in Mombasa. gdolan54@gmail.com @GabrielDolan1  