Universities play a key role in the formation and imparting of values to the society; as such, they have a role in the provision of quality and holistic education that embraces ethics and values. Citizens, governments and educationists are greatly concerned about the proliferation of societal ills like corruption, poverty, impunity, violence, suicide, numerous forms of addiction, child abuse, terrorism and disrespect for one another. BANDIT ECONOMY Africa lost $1.4 trillion in illicit financial flows between 1980 and 2009 — far more than the money coming in — which seriously undermined development. This involves transfer of money made through corruption, bribes, tax evasion, criminal activities and contraband goods. The current 10-year assessment is more shocking. Dr Willy Mutunga, the former Chief Justice of Kenya, calls this kind of situation a “bandit economy” — where education and hard work no longer pay but shortcuts, manipulation and exploitation. INTEGRITY The situation gets worse when, in some cases, an entire education system is corrupted so that universities offer standard qualifications and the best academicians move abroad. Academic integrity — such as the rules for reporting fraud, addressing misconduct and dealing with whistleblowers — is, in many cases, wanting. The extent of enforcement is often influenced by extra-educational considerations. For instance, that if no plagiarism is recorded or documented, it is likely that plagiarism rules will not be enforced. PLAGIARISM Doctoral students have filed legal complaints against their supervisors for failure to acknowledge their contribution to grant proposals. Charges of plagiarism have been brought against very senior academics. It is also apparent that academic standards are being eroded because ethics is not taught and is rarely enforced. When, especially graduate programmes, fail to emphasise ethics, the result is scepticism about the necessity of learning about it and how to teach it. It is time universities took ethics and values seriously because complete education is holistic and must seek to combine knowledge and values. ABSURDITY According to Plato, the educated one is only worth the tag if they return to the cave and liberate those that they left there. If the journey out was corrupt and deceitful, liberating others will also be corrupt. This only perpetuates an absurdity. The ongoing education reforms in Kenya promise a shift from the traditional teaching of values through such subjects as religious studies and life skills to what is being touted as value-based education. BENEFITS Universities can undertake relevant research in ethics, offering pre- and in-service training for teachers and collaborating with their peers to advance the course. Dr Martin Luther King, Jr summarised the two functions of education as teaching the learner to think intensively and critically and shaping character. Academic institutions should abide by the highest ethical standards and make deliberate efforts to integrate ethics in their teaching and business. Besides developing morally upright people, Globethics.net notes, such universities gain intrinsic benefits that relate to enhanced image and reputation, recognition from peers, establish motivating work environments and attract and retain talent. CONFIDENCE They gain global competitiveness, attract more students, gain stakeholder confidence, attract grants and funding and, of course, make a contribution to the economic development of their respective countries and Sustainable Developments Goals. Prof Mbae is Vice-Chancellor, Catholic University of Eastern Africa. jmbae@cuea.edu   By IRUNGU MUNENE