Barclays Kenya Open will upgrade to the main European Tour following the government’s commitment to increase its sponsorship by 100 per cent to 2.2 million Euros (Sh280 million) starting next year. Announcing the increased package yesterday during the prize-giving ceremony at Muthaiga Club, President Uhuru Kenyatta said the government’s support for the tournament will go up from 1 million Euros this year to 2.2 million Euros (Sh280 million). The President, who was accompanied by Nasa leader Raila Odinga, directed Kenya Open Golf Limited (KOGL) to speed up the process that will see the tournament join the European Tour next year. President Kenyatta also directed KOGL to speed up the formation of the Safari Tour for both professional golfers and amateurs, saying that is the only way players from the region would improve their skills to be at par with opponents from established nations in the game. Mr Kenyatta also directed the Sports Ministry to ensure the golf course at Lenana High School in Nairobi is fully operational and open to all schools from Nairobi for use. Kenya Open golf championship celebrated its 50th anniversary this year, and 30 years as European Challenge Tour event. “Kenya Open must not wait for five years to join the main tour,” said Mr Kenyatta after Tourism Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala had earlier indicated that the tournament may have to wait for five years before joining the main European Tour. “Golfers appreciate the size of the prize money and this year’s event had the highest prize money in the Challenge Tour,” noted Mr Kenyatta. “Our golfers must test themselves against world’s best.” The President said that having Kenya Open on the main tour would help create jobs for the youth in Kenya, improve sports tourism besides exposing local players. “The event will be aired live across the world hence exposing the country to the world,” said Mr Kenyatta. Kenyatta urged governors across the country to seize the opportunity and grow the game by introducing it in schools with regular competitions.   He walked away with 80,000 Euro (about Sh10 million).