After completing her secondary school education in 2009, Gertrude Munge, 26, decided to relocate from her home in Nyeri County to Nairobi in search of greener pastures. She got a job as a shop attendant, but a year later, she was jobless. She decided to return home, where she enrolled for computer classes, even though she aspired to become a tour guide. In 2011, she got a job with Summit Ventures Expeditions, a tour company that specilises in mountain expeditions. She was employed as a porter, and was offered training on basic mountaineering skills. In 2012, Gertrude got another training opportunity with Mount Kenya East Pilot Project, which was being undertaken by Mount Kenya National Park. The training equipped her with critical skills on basic mountain search and rescue, rock-climbing and survival skills, which was a significant boost to her career. She would go on to earn a certificate in Country Tour Guiding. In her line of work, she acts as a guide to those less experienced in mountain climbing, most of whom are first-time visitors from different parts of the world. She has scaled mounts Kilimanjaro, Kenya, Elgon and the Aberdare Ranges in the five years she’s been a mountain guide.  Why did you choose to become a mountain guide? I enjoyed outdoor activities and loved exploring things that present a challenge. I was sure that repeatedly conquering a mountain was just the kind of challenge I would enjoy. Today, seeing how elated clients get at having done a successful climb gives me satisfaction.  What does your job involve? In a nutshell, the job of a mountain guide involves the planning of a tour expedition, ensuring clients’ safety and providing a rewarding memorable leisure experience to those you’re supervising.  Which personal qualities must a mountain guide have? One should have a passion for expedition, no phobia for heights, deserted and quiet places. You should also enjoy expeditions and have no fear of wildlife or whatever else that lives in the jungle. This also demands that you have a keen sense of direction, otherwise you and your clients will get lost. Visitors will asking you about the flora and fauna you will encounter along the way, so a good knowledge of the environment is vital, so are good communication skills. You are in the tourism sector, so you should be outgoing. You also have to be physically fit because what I do involves lots of walking and scaling heights.  If I wanted to become a mountain guide how do I go about it? To become a professional mountain guide you need to train with an institution such as the National Outdoor Leadership School in Tanzania (NOLS) and Kenya School of Adventure and Leadership (KESAL). You can also train on the job with certified companies like I did. Assume that I am client, take me through the basic steps of preparing for an expedition. Most important, you should be medically and physically fit. You need regularly exercise prior to the expedition to prepare your body for the grueling task ahead. Start with climbing a lower mountain and work your way up. As your guide, you should notify me of any medical or health status that might need special attention because it determines your diet, climbing pace, and prepare me on what to do in case of an emergency.  You are with clients who you will guide up Mount Elgon. What are the must-carry items that they will need? Adequate food and water reserves, of course. Other items are warm clothes, rain gear, flashlights, first aid kit, fire starter, sunglasses, maps and hiking boots.  Any memorable mistake you made during your early days as a mountain guide that now come to mind and elicit laughter? I used to carry too much of everything- snacks, gear, and clothes. I would end up with a heavy backpack that would make the climb a torturous experience. The less you carry, the easier the climb will be for you.  Group or individual climb - which of the two has potential for more success during an expedition and why? I have done climbs with both, and what I have learnt is that success depends on the individual. In a group however, clients tend to encourage one another, which presents a better chance of a successful, more fulfilling expedition. How do you take care of your safety and that of the client when walking through dense vegetation habouring, say, wildlife and danger of being attacked, slipping off steep creepy cliffs, etc. Now this is where keenness of direction comes in. It is important to use established trails, which are much safer than unused ones. The Kenya Wildlife Service rangers are always at hand in case we need help.  What happens if a client falls ill up the mountain? If a client becomes unwell and you have exhausted all first aid precautions, it is advisable to descend using the quickest exit point. In such a case, I would need to assign my assistant to go back with the sick person as I soldier on with the others. If it is a severe case, then a helicopter evacuation should be carried out immediately.  Must the nearby government administration be informed before you make an expedition? Yes, we are required to notify them in case of an emergency. Every mountain has a Kenya Wildlife Service station, they are the ones that authorise the expeditions.  Are the work challenges for a female mountain guide similar to those of a male guide? Although we might face the same challenges, sometimes clients doubt our capability due to our gender, a reaction that can be demotivating. Female guides are just as able and as strong-willed as a male ones, even in case of an emergency.  Are you happy with what you earn from your job? Would you say that your job is rewarding? I would confidently say that it is rewarding because I am able to comfortably take care of myself. I have also helped to educate my siblings and support my family. Worth pointing out is that how much you earn is determined by the season – we earn more during the high tourist seasons. Your earning also depend on the terms you have with the company you are engaged with.  Obviously, not every month is busy - do you have a side hustle? Don’t we all have one? When I am not leading an expedition, I offer my services during team buildings and safaris. I also have a clothes store, which is an important income boost, especially during the low tourist season. Being a tour guide is my main hustle though, my dream is to own the largest tour company in Kenya, and also set up a training school.  For some, scaling a mountain is leisure – what do you do to relax? My hobbies are cooking and watching movies. I also enjoy spending time with loved ones.  What advice would you give a young person reading this? Get out of your comfort zone, be courageous and confident, and believe that you can do anything  you set your mind to do.  