Deputy President William Ruto on Saturday opposed plans to create new political positions by changing the Constitution. Mr Ruto said the country should focus on development rather than creation of positions to suit individual interests. Mr Ruto was referring to recent reports on a proposed bill by Tiaty MP William Kamket that is proposing the establishment of the office of a powerful Prime Minister and a weak President. DEVELOPMENTThe bill also proposes creation of two deputy premiers and the office of the official opposition leader, a clear return to a parliamentary system. But Mr Ruto said: “We should think about development and not changing the Constitution to create positions, politics should come later.” The DP, who was speaking during a victory party for Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Echesa, said the Jubilee government is focused on development. He said he would return to the region soon to launch construction of roads. Speaking earlier in Bomet County where he unveiled road projects, the tough-talking DP rubbished the plan for constitutional changes. JUBILEE MANIFESTOHe termed it as a waste of precious time for development. “Leaders, the citizens have done their bit, engaging in tiring campaigns and electing us last year. The remaining time is not for wandering around, with debates on changing the Constitution so that certain people can get positions,” he said. “Let us focus our minds on transformation of the country, building roads, hospitals and other helpful developments. Not debates and discussions on power sharing and changing this or that...We cannot engage in politics from January to January, from one election to another,” he said. Mr Ruto said leaders elected on Jubilee tickets should implement the manifesto to the letter. The DP was visiting Bomet for the first time after the re-election of the Jubilee administration. He arrived with plenty of goodies for the region, which incidentally did not vote for the opposition as had been thought. ROADSHe launched the 28km road from Aisaik-Leldaet to Ndaraweta and the Sotik-Kapmusa road, which will cost Sh1.2 billion. In Mumias, Mr Ruto criticised the proposal to create the premier’s post, saying it is time for development. Majority Leader Aden Duale said he would lead Mr Ruto’s supporters in fighting off plans that are against the DP’s ambitions. “We have a plan. We are firm and our plan is a major one. I am in charge of northern Kenyan and our presence around the country is evident,” Mr Duale said. He added: “From now on, we will ensure Ruto does not get an injury. Those who will want to derail Ruto’s agenda, we will smash them. Ruto is working on development as we play politics for him.” Other speakers at the event held at Mumias Sports Complex called on the vote-rich Luhya community to shun the opposition. NASAThey also urged ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula to join the government. Ikolomani MP Ben Shinali said: “We in Jubilee already have a way. Let us walk the same path in 2022.” Busia Senator Amos Wako said he attended the event as a sign of Luhya unity. “I am an ODM Senator but we want the Luhya to unite. That is why I am here.” In Bomet, the DP said he values the Mau Forest water tower and supports conservation efforts. But he insisted that he would always advocate for humane treatment of forest settlers. LOGGINGHe was accompanied by Energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter, Bomet Governor Joyce Laboso, her Deputy Hillary Barchok, Infrastructure PS Julius Korir, Senator Christopher Langat, Dr Julius Kones, chairman of Kenya Pipeline and Water Corporation, Kanu Secretary-General Nick Salat and all the six MPs. “We have given a directive to stop all logging activities in our forests. We all agree that the environment is not a joke. When we say that, there are those who think we have changed our minds,” the DP said. “That which we said no to in the past, now and in future is mistreatment of people, destruction of property and burning of homes, churches and schools because of the environment,” he said. He said a task force has been created to oversee environmental protection and warned those engaging in logging “just because they have licences” that their days are numbered. “The government will ensure that 60 million trees are planted this year,” he said.   Jubilee Party disowned the Bill on Wednesday.