Star-studded Vihiga Queens defeated debutantes Gaspo 3-0 in a fiercely contested Football Kenya Federation (FKF) women's Premier League (WPL) match at Mumias Sports Complex on Sunday. Vihiga, who are the league’s defending champions, scored via Teresa Engesha in the 12 minute, Corazone Aquino (39th) and Topister Situma (61st). The victors started the match on a sound note with midfielder Aquino time and again making relentless attacks at their opponent’s goal mouth in a bid to snatch the opener. Gaspo’s lethal striker Mary Kinuthia mounted spirited attacks that saw her miss several scoring opportunities in the match that was officiated by referee Bernard Juma. Vihiga’s Egesha capitalized on a defensive blunder, before she landed the ball in the left corner of the net beyond the reach of custodian Brenda Achieng in the 12th minute to score the first goal. Both teams engaged in fierce exchanges as the match headed to half time. Aquino beat an offside trap mounted buy Gaspo defenders led by Sharon Alouch, to hit the roof of the net past the advancing Gaspo custodian Achieng in the 39th minute for the second goal. After the breather, Gaspo came into play a more refined side and they could have found the back of the net, when Sherly Angachi’s long range shot was punched over the cross bar by custodian Wilfredah Seda. Proper co-ordination upfront by Vihiga strikers saw Phoebe Owiti put through Situma, whose shot few metres from the box hit the goal post, before the ball rolled into the net for the third goal in the 61st minute. Vihiga coach Alex Aumira attributed the victory to proper co-ordination among all the players. “The players executed their moves very well. There was team work especially upfront which contributed to our victory,” he said. Gaspo tactician Isaack Mwathe said his players are yet to gain the necessary experience in the top flight football. “It is the first time most of my players are featuring in the Premier League. They need time to settle down,” he noted,  