Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) on Saturday retained the Kenya Cup after edging out Kabras Sugar 29-24 in closely contested final at KCB Ruaraka grounds. The bankers touched down four tries, three conversions and a penalty to seal their sixth Kenya Cup crown, finishing the season unbeaten in 13 outings. It’s the first time a team is winning Kenya Cup unbeaten since the 2011/2012 when Kenya Harlequin won the diadem. It was a day of glory for KCB as their second side beat Impala Saracens II 22-17 to lift the Eric Shirley Shield title after leading 14-7 at the break. Kabras scored three tries and three penalties but once again fell short of beating KCB for the third time in the Kenya Cup final - after previous failed attempts in the 2014/2015 and 2016/2017 seasons. Flanker Brian Nyikuli, eighthman Peter Waitere, winger Jacob Ojee and substitute flanker Martin Owila scored KCB tries as Darwin Mukidza added the extras for the victory. KCB led 19-13 at the break in the nervy clash that Kabras had fans on the edge of their seats only to blow up two scoring opportunities in the last moment of play. Centre Johnston Mungau, hooker Coleman Were and fullback Philip Wokorach scored Kabras Sugar’s tries. Wokorach made the penalties but failed to rescue Kabras, who went on to lose to KCB for the seventh time. “Our resilience is what won the title for us,” said KCB coach Curtis Olago, adding that they expected a tough battle after Kabras Sugar had trained under former Kenya Simbas coach Jerome Paarwater from Western Province, South Africa. “They analysed all our games and knew our attack and defence but my boys couldn't let it go,” said Olago, who also had the services of forwards coach Hanyani Simange from Western Province, South Africa. KCB won the title for the first time in 2005 before defending it back-to-back in 2006 and 2007. They would later win the title again in 2014/2015 and 2016/2017 seasons. “Our poor finishing cost us… It's very disappointing and quite emotional knowing that we could have won this final but lost,” said Kabras Sugar skipper Max Adaka. “We had it but we missed to put on board crucial points in the first half and towards the end of the session,” said Kabras coach Charles Cardovillis. “Kudos to my boys for a good battle and its unfortunately we got stuck. KCB deserved to win after a good show.” Asuman Mugerwa was sin-binned by South African referee Archie Sehlako in the early minutes of play after an infringement to leave Kabras with one man less. KCB cashed on their numbers to with Nyikuli scoring from a rolling maul from the resulting penalty before Mukidza converted. Wokorach hit back with a penalty as Kabras trailed 7-3.   A swift intercept by Mungau from a loose KCB”s lineout ball gifted him with a try as Kabras led 8-7. Kabras got a penalty, kicked to touch before engaging in a rolling maul for Were to score and give them a 13-7 lead. KCB responded well with attacks from both flanks before Waitera evaded tackles to score. Mukidza converted as KCB reclaimed the lead 14-13. Another explosive exchange by KCB saw Ojee touch down to lead 19-13 at the break.  