Murang’a Boys High School parents are up in arms after they were asked to contribute Sh40,000 each for construction of a swimming pool and the purchase of a bus. The school has 1,136 students. If each contributes Sh40,000, the school will collect over Sh45 million. Parents who have not contributed have been given a deadline to pay or their children will be sent home. A parent who sought anonymity said the school administration has pressured them to remit the money before a fundraiser on April 6, which will be presided over by Deputy President William Ruto. “Initially, we had been told to contribute Sh50,000 but the amount was later reduced by Sh10,000,” she said. “We had not been consulted over the matter and the money was just imposed on us, which is very unfair,” she said. PROJECTSThe school said the money will be used for buying a new school bus, construct a swimming pool, complete a dining hall and increase dormitories. “I thought the government has allocated funds in every school to facilitate expansion of facilities and I don’t understand why we are being burdened to meet such huge costs,” she said. “Dear parent, if you have not cleared your pledge towards April 6, you should come to school as follows …” a message from the school to parents said. Principal Alex Kuria said the parents would have to honour their pledges to facilitate the development of the school, which has been classified as national. ICT LABSpeaking on the phone, the principal said the money was agreed on during last year’s annual general meeting so that the school could raise at least Sh40 million ahead of the harambee to complete projects worth Sh79 million. The principal said they target to build a multipurpose hall, dormitories, classes and a resource centre fully equipped with an ICT lab and offices. He said that a swimming pool was in their integrated plan but was not a priority, although the school needs it since others in Kiambu County have it. County Director of Education Victoria Mulili said she was not aware of the charges and promised to initiate investigations into the matter.  