Thousands of years ago, the people from whom I am descended (at least partly!) used to congregate in an open space in their village whenever there were important issues to be discussed. Matters for discussion included declarations of war, reception of visiting dignitaries, important events such as planting and harvesting, deaths and births, and so on. Normally some signal would be used to communicate the decision to convene a meeting, and since the venue and time were pretty much fixed, people getting the signal would troop to the space and get the necessary information. While there was a hierarchy in such meetings concerning who would speak and in what order, the voice of the people would be communicated to the rulers, and often the final decision would take into consideration the needs of all in the village. EXPRESSIONEven with the advent of colonialism and the introduction of electoral politics after independence, the open space in this community remains as a place of social interaction, and many such spaces have been converted into playing fields by the youth when not required for the occasional community meeting. The continued existence of the open space is an acknowledgement that our elected and appointed leaders will not always speak in our interests, and that the temptations of high office may cloud their judgement to such an extent that they may forget the problems their people elevated them into leadership to solve. However, due to the geographical dispersal of people and the practical impossibility of having these regular palavers at a moment’s notice, alternative voices have had to find platforms in which to express views that may at times be supportive, and other times contrary, to what the establishment believes to be right. MEDIA For a long time, a key platform for this purpose has been our national media. Two or three media houses have maintained a respectable print media presence in this country, and they have been heavily supported by the country’s intelligentsia in the form of opinion writers and regular columnists. Over the years, despotic regimes have done their best to control the voice of the media, to mould it in their own image, and they have succeeded in many cases. In cases where they have failed, they have resorted to crippling independent media using the various tools at their disposal, including security threats to individual writers and editors, economic sabotage (usually by denying them advertising revenue), artificial scarcity (by buying all available copies and destroying them), among others. EDITORIAL STAFFFinally, when that fails too, despotic regimes have attempted to co-opt the media owners into the regime in order to influence editorial policy. Unfortunately, when this happens it is not conducted in the public arena. Changes will occur secretly in boardrooms and members’ clubs, and the only evidence of successful co-option will be changes in the editorial staff and the gradual shift of the tone of the publication’s editorials and stories away from the “controversial” towards the government position. Given that no independent publication will willingly admit to having been co-opted into the regime agenda, it follows that the reading public will perceive the way things are slanted and arrive at their own conclusions. COLUMNISTSThese questions have weighed heavily on my mind over the past few weeks as many columnists have argued that this publication may have lost its reputation as the independent Fourth Estate bulwark it has always been. Several columnists have resigned to protest the perceived loss of independence in the Nation Media Group. I have been asked by many readers to explain why I am still here. I am still here because I still believe that this platform remains an important “open space”, and my ancestors would frown upon my refusal to speak in this space, no matter my relationship with the “owners” of the space. I intend to continue writing in this space for as long as I am sure that my message will reach the audience as crafted by me, and that its colour and tone will remain as I intend them to be. Atwoli is Associate Professor and Dean, Moi University School of Medicine Lukoye@gmail.com  