National women’s football team Harambee Starlets on Sunday cruised to a 3-0 win over She-polopoplo of Zambia in a friendly match staged at the Arthur Davis Stadium in Kitwe, Zambia. Experienced forward Corazon Aquino scored a brace in the match, and her efforts were complemented by striker Mwanahalima Adam as the Zambians searched in vain for a response. Adam opened the scoring in the 18th minute, before Aquino struck in quick succession in the 78th and 83rd minutes to sink the hosts. An elated coach Richard Kanyi congratulated his charges on a game well played, and asked them to stay focused ahead of the Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers. “Zambia is a good team, they have made several strides in terms of women’s football so this match was quite significant to us. I thank the girls for winning convincingly despite Zambia’s strengths, and I hope they will carry that spirit into our next competitive match," the former Thika Queens coach said. This was Starlets’ first engagement since September last year, when they took part in the Cosafa tournament, and they were using the friendly match as a build-up ahead of their 2018 Africa Women’s Cup of Nations qualifier against neighbours Uganda next month. Starlets arrived in Zambia on Thursday evening, with a revamped squad that included new faces Wincate Kaari and Vivian Nasaka. Striker Neddy Atieno, who missed the 2016 Awcon due to career commitments, was part of the travelling party, as was Cynthia Shilwatso, who starred for the national U-20 side last year. Kanyi opted to start with a highly offensive squad that had the quartet of Mwanahalima Adam, Wendy Achieng, Neddy Atieno and Cynthia Shilatswo leading the hunt for goals. In the absence of Vivian Akinyi, Poline Atieno was handed the goalkeeping duties, with Pauline Musungu, Wincate Kaari, Lilian Adera and Dorcas Shikobe providing cover for her. To earn a place in the Awcon tournament for a second consecutive time, Starlets will need to play just two rounds of qualifying matches. A win over Uganda in the two-legged tie will guarantee them a place in the second and last qualification round where Equatorial Guinea lie in wait.  