The recent increase in suicide cases among young people should be a matter of great concern to us. The statistics are startling. At least 40 such cases were reported in western Kenya between December 2017 and February this year. In some counties over 10 cases are reported every month! The sad case of the young man who had threatened severally to commit suicide and whose body was found dangling on a tree in Kakamega County remains an uncanny image. But not long ago, a 22-year-old student at Murang’a University College of Technology committed suicide after what was said to have been a break-up with his girlfriend of three months! CAUSESIn yet another bizarre report, a 13-year-old standard six pupil in Molo is said to have killed himself after being asked to report to school in the company of his parents. Other cases are difficult to fathom like the case of two brothers aged 14 and 16 who committed suicide after fighting over distribution of domestic chores. According to World Health Organization (WHO), suicide is the second leading cause of deaths among 15 to 29-year-olds. Interestingly, 78 per cent of the suicide related deaths occur in low and middle income countries, Kenya included. Psychologists of different persuasions have a lot to say about suicide. They, however, link suicide to several causes. CONFLICTS One school of thought attributes it to several negative life events such as stress. Children who go through stressful events including chronic economic hardships, suffer from terminal illnesses, break up with boyfriends or girlfriends and get poor grades in school, are all prone to suicide thoughts. What such children need more than anything else is love and understanding. Conflicts in the family, especially between parents, adversely affect children and drive them to engage in catastrophic activities. It is therefore mandatory for parents, teachers and all social actors to invest in support networks and create conducive environment for growth of children. MEDIAIt is also possible to attribute suicide instincts to what is commonly described as “the contagion effect”. This describes those children who indulge in suicidal behaviour by emulating celebrities and those they admired and who committed suicide. We cannot also underestimate the role of the media. Sometimes the attention given to suicide is attractive to some young people who feel alienated and abandoned. This may explain the effect of the online game that has 50 challenges and the player is considered a winner when she goes through the last challenge, which requires the person to commit suicide. This game has claimed many lives of youngsters across the world. Strangely, the media attention given to this game attracts youngsters. ANGERSigmund Freud, the great psychoanalyst, helps us unravel the mysteries of suicidal instincts and appreciate the role of repressed anger. Anger may lead to a feeling of self-destruction. Anger sometimes originates from conflicts between children and their parents. Teenagers, especially those who are unhappy with their parents, but do not have ways of expressing it, commit suicide as a means of punishing them. That is why parents have to be careful in handling challenges that their children face in the process of growing up. Suicidal tendencies may also be genetic. Suicide is said to run in some families. Most children who commit suicide have members of the family who also have either attempted or committed suicide. It is therefore important to take a keen look at family histories as we bring up children. COMPASSIONIt is possible, though not right, for many people to blame the victims of suicide as selfish and spoilt brats. We need to approach this phenomenon with empathy and compassion. We falsely think that children are never depressed and deeply affected by what goes on around them. We should get worried when children drop hints that they might not be around for long. It is important to listen to children and encourage them when they feel hopeless and guilty. When children lose interest in school, sports and are withdrawn, irritable, anxious then we have to raise our antennas. More significantly, we have to keep the lines of communication open and express our support and love for children even when they annoy us. Prof Kabaji is the Principal of Turkana University College, egarakabaji@gmail.com; Prof Lushya teaches at Moi University, lushya2000@yahoo.com  