The economy has recorded a sluggish growth in the past few years due to several factors, including insecurity, drought and intense political campaigns. However, the latest household survey reports curious findings that will certainly generate debate. First, the reports indicate that poverty levels have gone down by 10 percentage points over a decade — 36.1 per cent in 2015/16 compared to 46.6 per cent in 2005/6. On paper, this could indicate a remarkable achievement in pulling a sizeable chunk of the population out of poverty. However, it does not represent the reality, given the generally high numbers of poor people. JOBSIt is notable, though, that the threshold for poverty has been pegged at Sh3,253 for rural areas and Sh5,995 for urban dwellers — figures that, in normal circumstances, are pretty low, given that even with Sh10,000 in a town set-up, for example, one cannot make ends meet. Second, unemployment has declined by more than five per cent to 7.4 per cent, against 12.7 per cent a decade earlier. In absolute terms, 1,4 million people are unemployed, compared to 1.9 million in 2005/6. Yet unemployment has emerged as the most daunting social and economic challenge of our times. INTERVENTIONS Many young people leaving colleges and schools cannot get jobs while many organisations, and even government departments, are shedding workers as they rationalise and trim payrolls to survive economic turbulence. Notably, socio-economic inequalities continue across regions despite interventions to create parity and ensure all citizens enjoy more or less similar opportunities. Historically and geographically disadvantaged counties such as Turkana, Mandera and Samburu have high incidences of poverty and insecurity compared to Nairobi and other towns and the agriculturally endowed regions; necessitating concerted efforts to narrow the gaps. The questions, notwithstanding, the essence of such surveys is to provide accurate and reliable information for decision-making. It is incumbent on the government, counties and the private sector to examine the reports critically and use them to initiate interventions to secure improved livelihoods and economic progression.  