There were things we were supposed to do. They told us as much. Go to school. Listen to your parents. Get a god job. Get married. Have a couple of children. Buy a house and a car. Eat healthy. Go to church, the mosque, temple or synagogue. Put your children through school. And make sure they follow the same rules. We were told that if we did all this, it would go well with us. We would be happy and successful. They were right. But not entirely. Depending on your personality, you either followed the rules, broke the rules, or amended the rules. Whatever path or destiny you choose, there comes that moment when you get that sinking feeling that there is more to everything than what you were told. However, if you don’t know what ‘more’ is, how are you supposed to get it? And that begins your lifelong search for answers to existential questions, for meaning. Certainly, Solomon, the wise king, pondered these grave matters. What was the meaning of a person’s life, the measure of it’s worth? Was it found in their daily toil, possessions or pleasures?  He set out on a personal study and returned to give an autobiographical account in Ecclesiastes 2:4-11. He writes, “I undertook great projects: I built houses for myself and planted vineyards.... I bought male and female slaves and had other slaves who were born in my house. I also owned more herds and flocks than anyone in Jerusalem. I amassed silver and gold for myself, and the treasure of kings and provinces. I acquired male and female singers, and a harem as well. I became greater by far than anyone in Jerusalem. In all this, my wisdom stayed with me. I denied myself nothing my eyes desired; I refused my heart no pleasure, My heart took delight in all my labour, and this was the reward for all my toil. Yet when I surveyed all that my hands had done and what I had toiled to achieve, everything was meaningless, a chase after the wind; nothing was gained under the sun.” We get it. NO NEED TO REINVENT THE WHEEL No need to reinvent the wheel. If we are so inclined, we can follow the rules as Solomon did only to arrive at the same conclusion. Perhaps there is another way? Throughout history, men and women have sought the path of suffering, hoping that in denying themselves, voluntarily or not, they will find more. Certainly, suffering is a part of life, and the more we avoid it, the more we suffer. This Easter, we will see images of men carrying crosses, seeking to emulate the suffering of Christ. Holocaust survivor, Viktor Frankl, contemplated the meaning of life. As a result of his experiences, he wrote his bestselling book, “Man’s Search For Meaning”. He writes, “It did not really matter what we expected from life, but rather what life expected from us. We needed to stop asking about the meaning of life, and instead to think of ourselves as those who were being questioned by life. Our answer must consist, not in talk and meditation, but in right action and in right conduct. Life ultimately means taking the responsibility to find the right answer to its problems and to fulfil the tasks which it constantly sets for each individual.” So what is the right action and right conduct life expects of us? All we know is what we have been told to do. The rules we were given. Could it be then that if there is nothing wrong with the rules, the problem all along has been, how we live the rules? Paul, the Apostle, a man who spent his life in religious zeal, gave the following insight in 1st Corinthians 13:  “If I have faith that can move mountains but do not have love, I am nothing. If I give over my body to hardship that I may boast, but do not have love, I gain nothing.....And now these three remain. Faith, hope and love. But the greatest of these is love”. We sense it to be true, if too simple a truth or too romantic a notion for some of our sensibilities. Yet perhaps we did not need to go to the mountains, live like a hermit or amass great wealth to find it. Love was always the reason for our existence. In her book, Return To Love, Marrianne Williamson writes, “Love is what we were born with. Fear is what we have learned here. The spiritual journey is the relinquishment of fear and the acceptance of love back into our hearts. Love is the essential existential fact. It is our ultimate reality and our purpose on earth. To be consciously aware of it, to experience love in ourselves and others, is the meaning of life.” Follow or break the rules. Whatever you do, let love lead. Have a blessed Easter.   My friend Anna lives on Zanzibar Island. She moved there from the US several years back, seeking a change of pace from her hectic western life.