Residents of Mandera County have decried the delayed compensation for lives lost and damages caused by wildlife in the area. Led by Guticha MCA Mohamed Ibrahim Yussuf, they said most of them who have been awaiting the compensation have been subjected to more suffering. “Most of the affected families in Mandera are suffering because of the long time the Kenya Wildlife Service is taking to compensate them for damages caused,” said Mr Yussuf. According to the MCA, families who lost their breadwinners through wildlife attacks are the most troubled in Mandera. “Some families lost their loved ones to snake bites, lion and hyena attacks over five ago but they are yet to be compensated despite having been approved for the same,” decried the local legislator. CROPS DESTROYED He said most of the families are languishing in poverty since the main source of their income has been destroyed. “Monkeys and baboons always take over farms along the river every time farmers attempt planting crops,” he said. He said victims of the human-wildlife conflict have been unable to receive specialised treatment due to lack of funds. “Those nursing injuries cannot afford medical costs and yet KWS is holding onto their money which can be used for proper medication,” he said. “Let KWS fast-track the compensation process so that justice can be felt. “KWS should be coming up with means of controlling human-wildlife conflicts in Mandera including fencing of Malkamari Game Reserve and trapping all wildlife and confining them there,” he proposed. SH521 MILLION Mandera County KWS Warden Adan Alio said a total of Sh521 million is to be paid to the affected families. “Since 2014 to date we have a total of 659 cases seeking compensation and once funds are released then each complainant will receive their share,” he said. Local records indicated 34 cases of human deaths due to wildlife attacks and each is to get Sh5 million as per the 2014 Wildlife Act. “We recorded 485 cases of human injuries that qualified for compensation and 132 cases where wild animals fed on domestic animals,” he said. He also said another eight cases of crop damage by hippos and elephants are awaiting compensation. “During the period we only compensated two deaths at a total of Sh10 million but we are awaiting the money for other 24 cases,” he said. Many recorded deaths in Mandera are due to poisonous snake bites in dry areas of Elwak, Lafey and Takaba. He called on locals to avoid encroaching on wildlife habitats to reduce human-wildlife conflict in the county. “Time has come for locals here to start creating sources of income from these animals rather than rattling them and running to seek compensation,” he said.  