Kenya Cup champions Kenya Commercial Bank will be eager to add another feather on their cap when they begin their Great Rift 10–a-side campaign on Saturday in a relatively easy Group C. They tackle Mean Machine at 10.28am, face Masinde Muliro University from 1.24pm before concluding Day One action with a tricky clash against Kenya Harlequins kicking off at 5.04pm. Hosts Nakuru, champions in 2014, are in Pool D and will battle it out against Impala, Kenyatta University’s Blak Blad and Nondescript for a place the in Cup knock-out. Homboyz are hot favourites to secure passage from Group A but will have to overcome the battle-hardened reigning Kenya Sevens champions Kabras Sugar, Western Bulls and greenhorns Makueni. Former champions Strathmore are in Group B and will square it out with tough Mwamba, formidable Menengai Oilers and Kisii University on Day One. In the women’s category, Top Fry started title chase in style sailing to the Cup semi-finals after winning all their three opening matches on Friday. In their first match Top Fry fried Kenyatta University Babes 46-0 before crushing Homeboyz 10–0 in their second match. Still calling the shots, Top Fry dismissed Northern Suburbs 12–0 to maintain an impressive clean sheet. Mwamba, who also booked a placed in the semis in the women’s category whose preliminary round was played under a round robin format, started their campaign on the wrong footing going down 0-19 to Impala. However, the Black Shirt recovered to beat Shamas 14–5 but lost narrowly 5-7 to Comras. BEAT HOMEBOYZ Northern Suburbs, who will square it out with Impala in the second semi-final, edged out Homeboyz 5-0 blanking KU 17–0. Homboyz found their scoring style when they whitewashed KU 25–0. Impressive Impala lasses overran Shamas 29–5. In under–18 boys school’s category, Bomet Secondary beat Top Fry 24–5 but received a doze of their own medicine in a 14–20 loss at the hands of Comras. JM Kariuki Secondary lost 0-27 to Spotlight and Comras beat Kericho’s Kabinga High 27–0.  