Sevens rugby and boxing have named their final men and women’s squads for Gold Coast Commonwealth Games even as some disciplines in Team Kenya started their residential training on Sunday at various venues. Kenya Sevens skipper Oscar Ayodi, who is recovering from an injury, will lead his squad of 12 players for the “Club” Games due April 4-15 in Australia. Ayodi, who didn’t travel with the team foe the USA and Canada Sevens, will have recovered ready for the “Club” Games with his squad that have regulars like former skipper Andrew Amonde and Collins Injera, William Ambaka. Other are stand-in captain Oscar Ouma, Nelson Oyoo, Dan Sikuta and Samuel Oliech. There are no major changes in the women’s sevens rugby team with experienced Doreen Remour, Philadelphia Olando and Celestine Masinde and Janet Okello making the team. This is the first time women’s rugby is featuring at the Commonwealth Games. In boxing, there is only one change where Brian Agina from Coast, who lost to Mohammed Ali (Kongowea) in the semi-final of flyweight during the trials, has been picked for the “Club” Games. Experienced Benson Gicharu, who won silver in flyweight at 2010 Delhi and bronze in bantamweight at 2014 Glasgow, will lead the squad that has Nick Okoth and Nick Abaka, who competed at Glasgow. Those who won during the trials but failed to get selected in he final team after boxing were only allocated sevens slot are given seven slots Victor Odhiambo (Light welterweight-KDF), Jacob Kimathi (Welterweight-Prisons) and Fredrick Ramogi (Super heavyweight-KDF). Elizabeth Andiego, who represented Kenya at 2012 London Olympics and 2014 Glasgow Commonwealth Games leads the women’s team of four pugilists. Releasing the squads on Sunday, Kenya’s chef de mission for the Commonwealth games, Barnaba Korir said he expects all the disciplines to settle for residential raining on Monday. Athletics, that have 65 athletes, started residential training at Milele Hotel but train at Kasarani while sevens rugby teams will put put up at KCB Karen but train at the RFUEA grounds. Boxing team will reside in Nakuru, triathlon heads to high altitude training in Eldoret while cycling will be in Muranga. Swimming will either train is Mombasa or Nairobi with the rest of the disciplines camping in Nairobi.   Mohammed Ali who won the trials misses out.