Economic growth is predicated on the expansion of a country’s industrial base. It must shift from a source of raw materials to a provider of processed products that fetch high returns in the international markets. Industrialisation, a goal that defines Vision 2030, has spinoffs such as creating jobs, extending the value chain and providing business opportunities. However, creating a robust industrial and manufacturing economy requires more than political pronouncements and goodwill. It comes with tangible investments, infrastructure, conducive and responsive legal and policy regimes and market opportunities. CHALLENGESBut that is where the challenge begins. This week, a public forum organised by the Nation Media Group and the University of Nairobi interrogated the country’s manufacturing status and made some concrete recommendations. Industry leaders, policymakers and even government functionaries acknowledged the factors slowing down the quest for industrial take-off. Top on the list is the costly yet unreliable power supply, poor infrastructure and lack of markets. Despite efforts to reform legal and policy frameworks, many laws and statutory instruments still undermine industrial growth. TAXEstablishing a manufacturing enterprise requires too much paperwork in addition to intangible obstacles such as bribery that put off investors. High taxation, as well as infrastructure deficiencies, add to the agony. In all, those in manufacturing have to bear unnecessary pain that renders their businesses untenable. The government must provide practical solutions to industrialists and manufacturers. Infrastructure development, expansion of roads and railways, will ease transportation and lower cost. Reliable cheap power will reduce the cost of production and make local goods affordable and competitive. But all these are not new; they have been canvassed many times. But they have not been translated into reality. Globalisation and the changing dynamics of international trade demand that we must address the challenges of industrialisation with some urgency.  