Second-placed team Bandari on Saturday extended their winning streak to six games as they beat Sony Sugar 1-0 in a SportPesa Premier League match staged at the Kericho Green Stadium. Mathare United registered a 2-0 win over Kakamega Homeboyz in another match staged at the Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos, as Nzoia Sugar beat Vihiga United 1-0 at their Sudi Stadium home ground in Bungoma. Bandari’s victory against Sony marked a 12th match unbeaten for the Mombasa-based side, who are currently under coach Bernard Mwalala moving them to 54 points. It also was the 17th clean sheet for goalkeeper Farouk Shikhalo, who is an almost sure candidate for the Golden Glove award, when the season concludes in two months’ time. Second half substitute Wycliffe Ochomo came up with the sole goal in the match, a 94th minute stunner that was enough to earn his side three points from the hard fought clash. Ochomo, formerly of Gor Mahia and Kakamega Homeboyz, sent home a long free kick curved brilliantly by Abdalla Hamisi past Sony custodian Kevin Omondi. “We remain humble despite the good run, because as a club we have also endured some very difficult periods. I thank God that the players are responding well to training and our new approach to matches is working every time,” Mwalala said shortly after the match. In Machakos, Cliff Nyakeya and Ronald Reagan lifted Mathare United to a 2-0 win over Kakamega Homeboyz, thereby marking the slum boys’ second win in 12 matches. Nyakeya opened the scoring for Mathare in the 21st minute when he calmly finished off a cross from John Mwangi, who had been fed by yet another sumptuous pass from Reagan. Nyakeya sent Homeboyz custodian Gabriel Andika the wrong way to give the slum boys an early lead in the match. Reagan, formerly of National Super League side Kibera Black Stars, got a goal of his own nine minutes after the half time break when he scooped a free kick delivered by Roy Okal and slotted it behind Andika. Both teams however found themselves reduced to ten men in the dying minutes of the game as Mathare’s Ahmed Mosi and Homeboyz’ Smith Ouko were both sent off. Mosi was sent to the early shower for collecting a second yellow card in the 90th minute while Ouko was given the marching orders seven minutes earlier for fouling Nyakeya at the edge of the box. Results: Nzoia Sugar 1-0 Vihiga United (Sudi Stadium) Sony Sugar 0-1 Bandari (Awendo Green Stadium) Mathare United 2-0 Kakamega Homeboyz (Machakos Stadium)  