Gor Mahia coach Dylan Kerr says he is in discussions with a number of English clubs with a view of arranging more friendly matches for his charges when they tour the country in six weeks’ time. The Kenyan champions head to the UK on November 3 for a week-long visit, whose highlight is to compete in the SportPesa Trophy match versus English Premier League side Everton. This clash is slated for Goodison Park from 10pm on November 6. And Englishman Kerr, 51, who has led K'Ogalo to successive league titles, has not only promised to offer each traveling player an opportunity to impress upon English scouts, but also spoil them with a tour of London. “We may get one, or possibly two other friendly matches. I want to offer these players a lifetime opportunity of playing in England. From there, you just never know,” said Kerr. “(So far) Bolton Wanderers, Rangers, Sheffield United, Sheffield Wednesday, Hull City, Reading and Glasgow Rangers are interested (in our tour) and will be sending their scouts to watch the game.” “I am also going to give these players a tour of their lives. I plan to take them on a tour of Buckingham Palace, Tower Bridge and other areas around London.” Against a star-studded European side, which is currently ranked seventh on the EPL standings, Kerr is planning to unveil some of East Africa's best talents including Jacques Tuyisenge, Harun Shakava, Francis Kahata, Francis Mustafa and Boniface Oluoch. Formerly the coach at top Tanzanian club Simba, Kerr also enjoyed stints at Leeds United, Doncaster Rovers, Blackpool, Reading and Kilmarnock during his two-decade-long professional career as a footballer which ended in 2003. In a related development, SportPesa’s Chief Marketing Officer Kelvin Twissa has extended an invite to Kenyans in Europe, calling on them to support the SportPesa Premier League Champions when they play one of the most seasoned clubs in the EPL. “The tickets have been reasonably priced to ensure that we give as many people as possible the chance to witness Gor Mahia make history. It will be an exciting match for sure,” said Twissa. Tickets for this highly anticipated fixture on Kenya’s football calendar go for £5 (Ksh650) for adults and £1(Ksh130) for those under-18 or over 65 years old. All the proceeds from the friendly will be channelled to Everton in The Community, the charity arm of the top EPL club. The exhibition match will see the first time a Kenyan club plays an EPL side on English soil.  