A suspect implicated in the shooting of former Garissa County’s Finance minister Idriss Mukhtar has alleged torture in police cells. Mr Mohamud Hussein Aden, was brought to court on Tuesday morning following an application by his family. Mr Aden was brought before High Court Deputy Registrar Faith Muguongo and immediately asked the court to be allowed to seek medical attention. Covering his face with a jacket, for protection, the suspect through lawyer Cliff Ombeta claimed that he was maltreated in cells. According to Mr Ombeta, his client was tortured so that he could sign alleged confession into alleged shooting of Mr Mukhtar. "The applicant and his family are apprehensive that serious and grave harm threatens to undermine the health and life of the applicant unless the court moves with speed," the application filed in court reads. In the application, Mr Ombeta said the suspect was held for more than 24 hours stipulated in the Constitution, and that he was brought before the magistrate without representation. "We will be arguing that he did not understand the proceedings because he was not represented by counsel," Mr Ombeta said. But Senior Assistant Director of Public Prosecutions Catherine Mwaniki dismissed the claims, saying suspect was being held at Gigiri police station pursuant to a court order. She said the prosecution was granted 15 days to complete investigations by a magistrate court and Mr Aden, together with Juliet Njoki, were to remain in custody. "I can confirm that the suspect is in lawful custody after the investigating officer was granted 15 days to complete the investigations," she said. Ms Mwaniki said the police were still investigating the matter and the suspect was being held at Gigiri police station as directed by the court. The court directed that Aden be treated at Kenyatta National Hospital and a report filed in court on September 6, when the case will be heard. A family doctor will also examine him. Mr Aden was arrested on August 27 and allegedly taken to several police stations.   David Mwai, who was suspected to have shot Idriss Mukhtar, died on Thursday.