Kenya’s Everline “Lioness” Odero is the new World International Boxing Association (WIBA) World super lightweight champion. Odero, 33, beat Zimbabwe’s Monalisa Sibanda on a unanimous points decision, having knocked her down twice to claim the belt during the bout staged at Treasure Gardens, Nairobi on Saturday. Odero scored 100-90, 99-97 and 100-90 respectively to overwhelm Sibanda, who kissed the canvass twice in the third round to receive six standing counts from referee Bena Kaloki. Odero, who stretched her record to nine wins, nine loses and two draws (9-9-2), would dedicate her victory to the later former Africa heavyweight champion James “Demosh” Omondi. “It really feels great to win especially at home,” said Odera “I have been longing for this victory and I thank God. This victory is for the memory of Demosh, who inspired me to join boxing.”   Demosh Omondi passed on in 2015. Odero also thanked Kenyans and everyone who supported her including her coach Nickson “Bisto” Omondi. Despite going down twice, Sibanda, who showed some recovery in seventh, eighth and ninth round, was not satisfied with the results. “I believe I won and the results were not fair,” said Sibanda, who demanded for e rematch. “I want to meet Odero gain.” The 35-year-old Sibanda, who now has five wins and nine losses, is likely to get a rematch in December this year. Peter Kuya of Osaga Promotion disclosed that the winning boxer from the bout was to get a rematch at home, hence Odera will get to defend the belt against Sibanda in Nairobi.   It was a successful evening for Kenyan boxers, who won all their bouts in the event promoted by Osaga Promotion. The extravaganza was watched by among others World Boxing Council (WBC) World super bantamweight champion Fatuma “Iron Fist” Zarika, who had just arrived from Britain ahead of her title defence on next Saturday.   Former WBC World bantamweight title contender Jane Kavulani beat Aciro Small from Uganda in a unanimous points decision (40-36, 40-36, 40-36) in their lightweight bout. Former amateur international Aziz Ali also beat Yobe Abbas from Uganda unanimously 60-54, 59-55 and 60-57 in their cruiserweight contest. Referee Charles Juma stopped the bout in the third round to hand Kenya’s George Owano a technical knockout victory against Uganda’s Kidega Dragon, who had sustained a gashing cut below his right eye.  