The Interior ministry has increased the number of security personnel in clash-torn areas of Mau region, Narok County, with instructions for those fanning the skirmishes to be arrested. Cabinet Secretary (CS) Fred Matiang’i said on Wednesday that they were going after those inciting residents to torch houses and maim others. MASTERMINDS Dr Matiang'i said they had information that some individuals were mobilising youths armed with bows and arrows and transporting to the areas in vehicles and boda bodas. He noted that only an organised group can take up weapons against another and cause the magnitude of violence being experienced in Narok. The CS spoke while opening a two-day capacity building session for assistant county commissioners from Eastern region at Kenya School of Government, Embu County campus. In his address to the administrators, he noted that the skirmishes have cost the security team a lot of time and resources but that deployment of officers will continue until normalcy is restored. “We have been awake all night, watching progress in Mau, and are still getting reports from the ground. The security team decided to step up deployment in the region. Instructions are for them to act decisively and firmly, without fear or favour," he said. "We want more arrests. This thing is being supported by some people. The law will chase them regardless of their status in society. You have seen that things are happening in the country. There isn't anyone who cannot be arrested. You have seen even senior leaders - governors, MPs and MCAs - being arrested." He continued: “We are not foolish to be told that those people moving around in vehicles and boda bodas, with poisoned arrows, just woke up and decided to take them and move around. Killing innocent people and burning people’s houses is not a solution. You will not use humans as collateral." OTHER VICES The minister said that next week, they will call a leaders' meeting in the area, the aim being to restore peace. Dr Matiang’i appealed to the administrators to firmly deal with cattle rustling and other cultural vices, and asked leaders to hold talks to ease the tension. Among those present were Interior Chief Administrative Secretary Patrick Ntutu, Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet and Eastern Regional Coordinator Wycliffe Ogallo. Nine people from Kuresoi South Sub-county were earlier arrested over the tribal clashes at Olpusimoru Ward in Narok North. Narok County Commissioner George Natembeya said they were taken to Narok Police Station and will be arraigned on Thursday morning. He said the attacks are by organised groups which he claimed are being funded by wealthy people.   People resisting phase two of evictions are behind the clashes, police say.