The battle for the gubernatorial race in the coastal counties of Kwale, Kilifi and Mombasa has begun in earnest four years to the General Election. Governors Amason Kingi (Kilifi), Hassan Joho (Mombasa) and Salim Mvurya (Kwale) are serving their second and final terms. Mr Joho and Mr Kingi have set eyes on the country’s presidency while Mr Mvurya is being pushed by some to be Deputy President William Ruto’s running mate. The other three Coast counties of Tana River, Taita-Taveta and Lamu appear not to attract much attention as governors Dhadho Godana, Granton Samboja and Fahim Twaha respectively are likely to defend their seats. Mr Samboja beat Mr John Mruttu, Mr Twaha defeated Mr Issa Timamy while Mr Dhadho beat Mr Hussein Dado in 2017. The battle to replace Mr Mvurya, Mr Kingi and Mr Joho is likely to be explosive. KINGI'S FAVOURITE The fight for the control of the three counties will mainly be between allies of the incumbents and their critics. In Kilifi, the battle is expected to be between MPs Owen Baya (Kilifi North) and Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), both close to Mr Kingi and Mr Ruto. Mr Kingi has remained silent on his possible successor. When the Deputy President toured Kilifi in June to raise funds for Bible translation, the supremacy battle between the two MPs openly played out. A resident recited a poem showering Mr Baya with praises and saying he is the best person to succeed Mr Kingi. That did not go down well with Ms Jumwa. When she took to the stage, she told Mr Baya to brace himself for a tough battle in 2022. The Malindi lawmaker spoke in her Giriama dialect. “Kuku kungine fundaelewana ela haho hadzehadwa ni iye muimbaji, kazi ihaho. Kavindakala rahisi bule (We are fine on other issues but what the poet has recited will not be easy. There is going to be a battle),” she said, to the applause of those at the function. RUTO'S ALLIES Mr Baya has announced he will not defend his seat. “I want to be the governor of Kilifi in 2022. That is my position. It is not a secret. I am capable of serving the people, having engaged them while working at the county government,” the Kilifi North MP said in a recent interview with the Nation. Mr Baya was a close ally of Orange Democratic Movement leader Raila Odinga before shifting loyalty to Mr Ruto alongside Ms Jumwa and several other lawmakers from the region. “I and Odinga are not enemies. We feel that we have been in the opposition for far too long and issues affecting the Coast are not being addressed,” he said. “I am in ODM but I also look at the bigger picture, the future of Kilifi and the Coast in general.” Ms Jumwa has already endorsed Mr Ruto for the country’s presidency and says she does not regret her decisions. “I speak my mind. What I can say is that my support for the Deputy President is guaranteed,” she said. FREEDOM FIGHTER Political analysts say it will not be easy for Mr Baya to defeat the Malindi lawmaker. Before shifting to Mr Ruto’s camp, Ms Jumwa was one of Mr Odinga’s biggest supporters in the region. At one time, the ODM leader likened Ms Jumwa to the legendary Mijikenda freedom fighter Mekatilili wa Menza. “This is the modern-day Mekatilili," Mr Odinga said when he flew to Malindi for the homecoming celebration of Ms Jumwa, then Kilifi Woman Representative, in 2016. In Mombasa, Mr Joho is said to be grooming County Assembly Speaker Arub Ibrahim Khatri to succeed him. Though maintaining a low profile in public, the soft spoken Speaker is believed to enjoy very close ties with the governor. ACHANI ENDORSED In Kwale, Mr Mvurya is openly campaigning for his deputy Fatuma Achani to succeed him when he leaves office. When Mr Ruto visited Jomo Kenyatta Primary School in Msambweni recently, Mr Mvurya introduced Ms Achani as the best person to succeed him. During the issuing of sustainable livelihood cheques to communities that will be displaced by Mwache dam in Samburu recently, Mr Mvurya again introduced Ms Achani as his preferred successor. “I have come with my deputy and you can all see how hardworking she is. That means there is no need of looking the other way,” Mr Mvurya told the crowd. “The deputy governor has demonstrated that she is capable of doing what I have been doing.”   ANC MCAs in the soup over dalliance with DP Ruto.