A two-months pay delay for county employees has irked MCAs, who want Finance executive Mwenda Thiribi to shed more light on the matter. Wabera Ward MCA Abdi Duba, a former teacher, took to wearing a school tie while in the chamber in solidarity with pupils and students who had failed to report to school since their parents had not been paid. Mr Duba who requested for a statement from the assembly’s Finance, Budget and Appropriation committee chairperson on the state of salary delays for county government staff said the region’s economy was sinking since money is not in circulation. The county government employees have not been paid for the months of July and August. The ward reps had summoned Mr Thiribi to appear before the committee Friday but failed, sending an apology indicating health grounds. Mr Thiribi had been involved in a road accident early August. The MCA whose sentiments were echoed by all other ward reps who were present during the session questioned why there was a delay yet salaries are budgeted for every financial year. He further asked the regional government to set a specific date when salaries will be paid to avoid inconveniencing its employees. The move by the county legislators comes after nurses in the region threaten to down their tools over the delayed salaries. “The economy of the county on a dead bed, shops have been closed because of huge debt, county employees are borrowing and taking items on credit hence worrying our local traders,” said Mr Duba. The MCA held that about 90 per cent of people living in Isiolo County were directly earning through salaries paid to the county staff. Some ward reps mentioned that their children were yet to report back to their respective schools owing to lack of money in their accounts. “We are in a very sorry state, as member of this House; we are paying from our pockets to help residents who need medical support,” “We are in an era where if salaries are being delayed, we can borrow from banks but it’s like we don’t have trust from the financial institutions around that can give us credit or an overdraft which will be paid back once we receive the budget from the national government,” said Mr Duba. Assembly’s Finance, Budget and Appropriation committee vice chairperson Sumeiya Bishar acknowledge Mr Duba’s sentiments saying the committee will summon the Finance executive. “We will summon the finance executive because we cannot continue with the same state, House members and county staff are suffering,” said the nominated MCA. She further questioned why Isiolo was exceptional while other counties had already paid their employees.  