Club managers and coaches in Kisii have asked the Nyanza South Football Kenya Federation branch to ensure match officials do not favour any team as the county league enters the second leg this weekend. The coaches are accusing some match officials of "incompetence" which is affecting the growth of the sport in the region. “We are tired of being victims of poor officiating which has cost most teams," said Nyamage FC head coach Leitred Oyori. The team features in the Kisii County League. Oyori also claimed that the fixtures are also "unfair" to some teams, adding that their complaints have fallen on deaf ears. Matches are on in all the nine sub county leagues and Division One where the former Kenya Premier League giants Shabana FC feature. There was violence during the match pitting Shabana against Bondo at Gusii Stadium a fortnight ago after the Siaya-based side was accused of fielding an ineligible player. The match took an ugly turn as fans and match officials were engaged in a heated exchange after the visitors scored the equalising goal in the 67 minute. Bondo went on to win the match 3-1 but Shabana filed a complaint and were later awarded the three points. Iranda Youth FC head coach Geoffrey Miyogo blamed the federation for allowing local tournaments to go on when the official leagues are on; something that he said has forced some fixtures to be postponed. Last weekend, the Division Two match between Sportiff and Muhoroni Youth at Mosocho a game, that ended 2-2, left the hosts reeling. The referee was forced to stop the match after 26 minutes due to a heavy downpour, but upon resumption, the match went straight into the second half. “I will file a claim against that referee,” said Sportiff head coach Elijah Sani. Nyanza South Branch FKF chairman Yobesh Mose said he is yet to receive an official complaint from any team pertaining poor officiating in matches. “I welcome anybody who feels he been offended to file the claim and justice will be done,” he said. He said that the federation has issued balls to some teams in the region.  