A biting fuel shortage has hit parts of the capital Nairobi as the strike called by petroleum transporters protesting against new government tax enters its fourth day. A random check by the Nation at Total, Shell and Kenol Kobil stations within the central business district on Thursday morning revealed that many did not have petrol. NO STOCKS On Wednesday, many stations across the country reported dry pumps, with those with the precious commodity, mainly diesel, experiencing long queues of motorists seeking to fill up. On Thursday, many lacked both diesel and petrol. A customer service attendant at Total petrol station on Kimathi Street in the city centre, Mr Duke Masogo, told that Nation that they had run out of stock. He said the crisis was likely to deepen because they do not intend to restock any time soon.   “I am not sure how long this situation will take, but we have not had petrol since last week,” said Mr Masogo. The new stock, he said, would be taken in once the confusion around fuel prices is cleared by the government and other stakeholders. Motorists who spoke to the Nation said their search for fuel in the capital had been long and fruitless. Mr James Ithagu, a transport supervisor at a leading media house, said most stations in the city centre lacked petrol. IMF “I purposed to come to work early today to find petrol for the vehicles and ensure they are at fuel tank because most places did not have fuel as at last night. I fuelled at Total Prestige along Ngong road,” said Mr Ithagu. Attendants at stations that lacked fuel, he said, told him that petrol quickly ran out  on Wednesday as the shortage started to bite.   Matatu drivers have also indicated that they have been experiencing difficulties in getting the said commodity in several stations. However, outside the city centre an    Total petrol station on Kimathi street Nairobi in Nairobi CBD had no fuel on September 6, 2018. Attendants said they were not sure when they would receive new stock. PHOTO | ANTHONY OMUYA | NATION MEDIA GROUP Attendants at stations that lacked fuel, he said, told him that petrol quickly ran out  on Wednesday as the shortage started to bite. Matatu drivers have also indicated that they have been experiencing difficulties in getting the said commodity in several stations. The new 16 percent VAT has also triggered fare increases, especially for long-distance travel, while millers have announced plans to raise prices of wheat and maize flour A biting fuel shortage has hit parts of the capital Nairobi as the strike called by petroleum transporters protesting against new government tax enters its fourth day. A random check by the Nation at Total, Shell and Kenol Kobil stations within the central business district on Thursday morning revealed that many did not have petrol. NO STOCKS On Wednesday, many stations across the country reported dry pumps, with those with the precious commodity, mainly diesel, experiencing long queues of motorists seeking to fill up. On Thursday, many lacked both diesel and petrol. A customer service attendant at Total petrol station on Kimathi Street in the city centre, Mr Duke Masogo, told that Nation that they had run out of stock. He said the crisis was likely to deepen because they do not intend to restock any time soon.   “I am not sure how long this situation will take, but we have not had petrol since last week,” said Mr Masogo. The new stock, he said, would be taken in once the confusion around fuel prices is cleared by the government and other stakeholders. Motorists who spoke to the Nation said their search for fuel in the capital had been long and fruitless. Mr James Ithagu, a transport supervisor at a leading media house, said most stations in the city centre lacked petrol. IMF “I purposed to come to work early today to find petrol for the vehicles and ensure they are at fuel tank because most places did not have fuel as at last night. I fuelled at Total Prestige along Ngong road,” said Mr Ithagu. Attendants at stations that lacked fuel, he said, told him that petrol quickly ran out  on Wednesday as the shortage started to bite.   Matatu drivers have also indicated that they have been experiencing difficulties in getting the said commodity in several stations. However, outside the city centre an    Total petrol station on Kimathi street Nairobi in Nairobi CBD had no fuel on September 6, 2018. Attendants said they were not sure when they would receive new stock. PHOTO | ANTHONY OMUYA | NATION MEDIA GROUP Attendants at stations that lacked fuel, he said, told him that petrol quickly ran out  on Wednesday as the shortage started to bite. Matatu drivers have also indicated that they have been experiencing difficulties in getting the said commodity in several stations. The new 16 percent VAT has also triggered fare increases, especially for long-distance travel, while millers have announced plans to raise prices of wheat and maize flour A biting fuel shortage has hit parts of the capital Nairobi as the strike called by petroleum transporters protesting against new government tax enters its fourth day. A random check by the Nation at Total, Shell and Kenol Kobil stations within the central business district on Thursday morning revealed that many did not have petrol. NO STOCKS On Wednesday, many stations across the country reported dry pumps, with those with the precious commodity, mainly diesel, experiencing long queues of motorists seeking to fill up. On Thursday, many lacked both diesel and petrol. A customer service attendant at Total petrol station on Kimathi Street in the city centre, Mr Duke Masogo, told that Nation that they had run out of stock. He said the crisis was likely to deepen because they do not intend to restock any time soon.   “I am not sure how long this situation will take, but we have not had petrol since last week,” said Mr Masogo. The new stock, he said, would be taken in once the confusion around fuel prices is cleared by the government and other stakeholders. Motorists who spoke to the Nation said their search for fuel in the capital had been long and fruitless. Mr James Ithagu, a transport supervisor at a leading media house, said most stations in the city centre lacked petrol. IMF “I purposed to come to work early today to find petrol for the vehicles and ensure they are at fuel tank because most places did not have fuel as at last night. I fuelled at Total Prestige along Ngong road,” said Mr Ithagu. Attendants at stations that lacked fuel, he said, told him that petrol quickly ran out  on Wednesday as the shortage started to bite.   Matatu drivers have also indicated that they have been experiencing difficulties in getting the said commodity in several stations. However, outside the city centre an