Police in have arrested two men suspected to have kidnapped and sexually assaulted a Standard Seven girl for three days in Tharaka-North sub-County. The suspects who work as bodabodas in Mukothima area were arrested on Thursday are being held at Mukothima Administration Police Camp. SCREAMS Thiiti chief Mark Nduyo on Friday said said the two men kidnapped the minor from Gatunga area on Monday as she was going to visit her grandparents in Mukothima. They took her to a house in Karutini village where they sexually assaulted her for three days. He said the minor was saved by villagers on Wednesday night after she screamed and attracted their attention. “On Wednesday night, the girl tricked the men and asked them to allow her go out for a long call and one of them went out holding her by the hand, but when they got out, the girl started screaming attracting the attention of villagers who came to her rescue,” said Mr Nduyo. He said on seeing the residents, the two middle-aged men fled to a nearby bush where they were hunted down and arrested. Mr Nduyo said the suspects will be transferred to Gatunga Police Station and later arraigned in Marimanti. After the rescue, the chief said, the girl was taken to her grandparents where she was picked up by her parents who took her to hospital. The incident comes barely a week after a four-year-old nursery school girl was kidnapped and defiled while going home from school. SUSPECT FREE The girl told the media that the suspected defiler grabbed and carried her into a nearby bush when he committed the indecent act. “He told me that he will kill me if I screamed and covered my mouth with his palm as he slept on me,” said the minor. According to the mother of the girl, the suspected defiler is a neighbour who is well known to them and their daughter. The child was taken to Marimanti sub-County Hospital for treatment. The mother told the Nation that the suspect is yet to be arrested. “I am demanding for justice for my daughter,” said the mother. Area police chief John Kavoo told the Nation that officers at Mukothima Administration Police Post, where the report was made, had not forwarded the case but he would order for investigation. Mr Nduyo said cases of kidnapping and defilement are on the rise in the region and urged parents to take care of their daughters.   Mrs Mercy Chidi Baidoo has been rescuing abandoned babies and abused girls for 14 years.