In 2013, Maha Property Ltd (MPL) bought a prime piece of land on Kiambu Road and put up an estimated Sh1.7 billion gated community comprising 150 four-bedroom en suite maisonettes. The project, which sits on a 25-acre piece of land, is named Runda Paradise due to its proximity to the lavish Runda estate and Paradise Lost, a recreational spot which also provides the area with a serene environment. The units, which have been completed, are selling at Sh25 million each, and according to the developers, the project has a second phase which will comprise an estimated 80 units on 15 acres, while a third phase will see the developer put up a hotel. Adjacent to Paradise Lost is Kencom Homes, another gated community owned by Kencom Sacco, which is largely owned by employees of the Kenya Commercial Bank, and comprises 113 high-end, four-bedroom units, some of which are already occupied. The Sh2 billion 20-acre project, whose construction began in August 2013, is funded by the National Bank’s Musharaka Construction Mortgage. The developer provided the land while the bank funded construction, with the profit being shared at negotiated ratios. Now there is a dispute over the land. LEGAL BATTLE Other projects sitting on the disputed land, whose current value is estimated at Sh100 billion, include Woodsman Villa, Prime Presidential Runda, Paradise Lost picnic site and Runda Palm Gardens. The investors have found themselves at the centre of a vicious legal battle over the ownership of a 900-acre piece of land between prominent families in Kiambu and peasant families, who want the land returned to them on the grounds that the people who sold it to the developers grabbed it from them. The National Land Commission has even written to the developers, asking them to furnish it with the purchase and ownership documents, as part of the hearing of the dispute, which is still simmering. Such circumstances, according to lawyers and property experts, have diverse effects on projects, especially on the uptake, since very few people are willing to invest where there is controversy, a factor they said could derail the projects. The claimants, under the Kasarini Ancestral Families’ Self-help Group, comprising different families, have filed a complaint with the NLC tribunal, demanding the land, arguing that they are the bona fide owners. In documents filed at the tribunal, the complainants argue that the land belonged to their forefathers, Mr Mbogo Wainaina and Mr Kariuki Gichinga, but that they were forcibly evicted from it, resulting in the death of some and the maiming of others. They claim that their forefathers bought the land from the Dorobo community-Kimokori, Kimandani, Gitaki and Ndimothi in 1930 through barter trade, adding that the current owners, who have been selling the land, acquired the title deeds fraudulently. According to them, 2,000 goats and cattle were given in exchange for the land, although the transaction was never recorded in writing since they did not have any written agreements at the time. However, colonial settlers identified the land as suitable for coffee farming research. After confrontations due to opposition by the occupants, the settlers agreed to a formula and organised the families into a society known as Kasarini Farmers’ Co-operative Society, which was registered on July 20, 1964.    FIVE ‘STRANGE MEN’ According to the terms of the deal, the families worked on the land, which was identified as LR 7153/R (under community land) and continued to benefit from any development on it, which included coffee. The families, which say they now live in slums, say their woes began in 1974, when the settler management informed them that the land and coffee would be managed by their own (settler’s) co-operative society. The say a team of “five strange men”, introduced to them as officials of the Kenya Planters Cooperative Union (KPCU), started running their society. But the five managers, they claim, would later take over the society by “killing it”, by stealing its identity and replacing the membership through illegal transfers, which saw the initial one liquidated, dissolved and replaced within four months. The new members, according to a document filed in court and dated November 15, 2017, were Samuel Mbugua, Margaret Nyokabi, Samuel Githegi, Grace Muthoni, Moses Mbugua, Christine Mithiri, Kimemia Gakunju, Mary Waruri, Kabogo Kangethe and Ruth Njeri. The registration of the new society, (No 2240), they told the court, laid the ground for their brutal eviction, which saw their homes destroyed and their families, comprising 1,200 members, ejected by the provincial administration, beaten, maimed, and their property looted. Further, the safe where their society’s documents and money were kept was broken into, allegedly to remove any traces of their ownership of the land, which has been at the centre of a protracted battle that has seen the self-help group members stage several protests on the property and at the National Land Commission offices. But in response to the claims, the respondents argue that the property they occupy never belonged to the self-help group members’ ancestors, saying it was private property, Kasarini Estate, and that they genuinely acquired 369 acres for Sh4.5 million. LEGITIMATE TRANSACTION For instance, Ms Nyokabi, in an affidavit, said their society, made up of five families, legitimately bought the land (L.R 7153/2 and 7153/1) in 1974 through the Co-operative Bank and were issued with an amalgamated title deed (L.R No 12825) in 1981. But the complainants, through their lawyers, questioned this, noting that the transaction took a record two days, and over the Christmas holiday at that. They also point out that it was ridiculous how a mortgage to purchase the land was registered on December 12, 1974, which they said was impossible. “It’s clear that the transfer and the mortgage required consent from the Land Board as the land was agricultural. The transaction would simply not have been carried out between 3oth and December 31, 1974,” adds the submission. Further, they claim to have established that the advocate who oversaw the transaction had a road accident in December 1974, went into a coma, and died in January 1975, and was in hospital during the period of the “frenzied transaction”. Mr Kimani Wakimaa, an advocate with interest in, among other areas, property law, says although the developers of the gated communities and other projects are not direct parties to the case, having acquired the land innocently, their businesses will suffer, as potential clients will grow cold feet.   Saccos now have schemes that allow members to get loans using their investment as security.