Former Kanyidoto Ward Representative Lawrence Obonyo Mula has been detained for 14 days to give detectives more time to investigate his possible involvement in the abduction and killing of Rongo University student Sharon Otieno. State counsel Amos Otieno on Monday said Mr Mula is yet to be interrogated as a person of interest. Mr Otieno told Senor Principal Magistrate Nathan Lutta that the suspect’s detention could for be for his own safety, owing to the attention the case has drawn. "My Lord, his detention will also be for his own safety owing to the tide of anger our there. The public is literally baying for the suspect's blood," Mr Otieno said. INTERFERENCE WITH PROBE He added that the former county assembly member had been in hiding after being adversely mentioned in the case. Mr Otieno requested that the suspect be detained at Kisii Central Police Station to prevent any interference with the investigations. "The detective working on the case believes the suspect may be of help and wants to interrogate him," he said. But Mr Mula protested, saying he was uncomfortable with the thought of being in a cell for the specified period. Another suspect, Mr Michael Oyamo, is also in police custody until tomorrow when he will be charged. Mr Oyamo, who is Migori Governor Okoth Obado's personal assistant, was arrested over the abduction of Ms Otieno and Nation journalist Barrack Oduor. They had been lured out of Graca Hotel in Rongo around 7.35pm by Mr Oyamo. STAB WOUNDS Mr Oduor escaped death after he jumped out of the kidnappers' car at Nyangweso market on Homa Bay-Kisumu road. Later, Ms Otieno, who was seven months pregnant, was found dead in Oyugis on September 5 with multiple stab wounds. Chief Government Pathologist Johansen Oduor said she died of excessive bleeding. Governor Obado, through his lawyer Cliff Ombeta, has maintained his innocence over the matter. She had told the journalist that the governor was responsible for the pregnancy.   Oyamo will be charged tomorrow.