Kenya’s hopes of making her first Africa Cup of Nations appearance in 14 years could be hampered by a broke Football Kenya Federation (FKF) and a not so committed government, Nation Sport understands. Last week’s 1-0 triumph over Ghana’s Black Stars in Nairobi leaves Harambee Stars with a realistic chance of rubbing shoulders against the continent's greatest footballers and teams at the biannual continental showpiece in Cameroon next year. But first, Stars have to garner at least nine points in their remaining four assignments against Ethiopia (home and away), Ghana (away) and Sierra Leona (at home) to be assured of securing qualification. Even though achievable considering the calibre of opponents, this task could be made difficult by financial constraints at FKF’s Kandanda House and unfulfilled promises by the government which has lowered morale in the team’s camp ahead of the remaining assignments. Key among FKF president Nick Mwendwa’s concerns is that Harambee Stars coach Sebastian Migne and his backroom staff have not been paid their salaries for the past two months, amounting to an estimated Sh5 million. In his post-match press-briefing following the victory over Ghana, Migne went on a three-minute rant, expressing his frustration for a 'lack of respect' by unnamed people, and even hinted he could throw in the towel. “It was missing of respect with this team during the week,” the French coach claimed. “It is not possible to work like that if we want to achieve at a high level, we are very far from this. I want to keep calm but I need to think about the future.” FKF have an agreement with the Ministry of Sports to pay Migne and his staff their salaries. More worrying for Mwendwa is the unavailability of Sh15 million to prepare this team for its next assignment against Ethiopia in Addis Ababa on October 10. These preparations include air tickets for foreign-based players including Captain Victor Wanyama from London and star striker Michael Olunga who is based in Japan. The team also has to conduct residential training for at least five days, while the 24 players called up, require training allowances and match winning bonuses whenever the situation demands. Harambee Stars players are also waiting for Deputy President William Ruto to fulfill his nine-month-old pledge to purchase them a state of the art bus after winning the Cecafa title last December. Nation Sport unsuccessfully tried to reach out to the Deputy President's communication team, Sports CS Rashid Echesa, his Principal Secretary Amb. Kirimi Kaberia and Mwendwa for comment on this subject. The PS is reported to be out of the country.   This position comes with an estimated Sh35 million annual income.