A preliminary report on the deaths of 12 babies at Pumwani Hospital, Nairobi County, has found that five of them died under unclear circumstances. Daniel Yumbya, the Chief Executive Officer of the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board (KMPDB), released the findings on Thursday. FACILITIES Mr Yumbya said all the babies died between September 12 and 17 and that three were born dead while four died in the first 24 hours of life. He said the five had been admitted to the newborn unit. The CEO said the board will investigate the deaths that were reported after Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko raided the hospital. The bodies were found in boxes, raising the question of the availability of proper facilities at the hospital, including a holding room for bodies. Mr Yumbya said the hospital lacks a holding room. "It is not only unacceptable but also unhygienic and ironic that the hospital lacks enough ambulances to respond to emergency cases and uses vehicles for the deceased," he added. Mr Yumbya also questioned the hospital's transportation of the dead to City Mortuary in ambulances meant for patients instead of hearses. He also said it does not have enough workers. INFIGHTING Meanwhile, members of the county health committee claim that conflicts between Pumwani nurses and doctors have seen them sabotage each other, leading to the problems the hospital is facing. Nurses working at the country’s premier maternity hospital, however, denied the allegations of infighting. The Kenyan National Union of Nurses (KNUN), led by Secretary General Seth Panyako has asked the government and the county to conduct a comprehensive medical audit of Pumwani. Mr Panyako, while on a visit of the facility, said sideshows must be avoided as they are overshadowing the main problems. The nurses complained about poor working conditions, saying facilities are inadequate yet about 1,700 women give birth monthly. “Imagine 160 nurses helping all these women to deliver. We should have 448 nurses on a daily basis if we are to operate optimally,” said Ediah Muruli, a former Pumwani Hospital nurse and the KNUN Nairobi branch secretary. The hospital currently has a total of 159 nurses, with the labour ward assigned seven during the day and six at night. This means it falls short of the World Health Organization's requirement of at least 10 nurses per ward.   County Secretary Kariuki in trouble for contradicting the boss.