Eight teams will take part in the inaugural Varsity League rugby 15s tournament planned for September 29 to October 27 this year at various campuses around the country. Tournament chairman Aggrey Chabeda disclosed that the eight teams will be slotted into two pools of four teams each where they will engage in a round-robin pool matches at a single venue. The winner of each pool will then square it out with the runner-up of the other pool in the semi-final on October 20, with the losers fighting it out for third and fourth place playoff in a curtain-raiser to the final due October 27. Chabeda, who is also the managing director of Sports Options Limited, named the teams for the inaugural tourney as Kenyatta University, University of Nairobi, Catholic University of Eastern Africa, United States International University and Jomo Kenyatta University of Advanced Technology. Others are Technical University of Kenya, University of Eldoret and Technical University of Mombasa. Chabeda said Sports Options have partnered with Kenya Universities Sports Association (KUSA) to organise the Varsity League that hopes to continue nurturing talent across the country. “We hope to expand the league since we know rugby is one of the fastest growing game in the country,” said Chabeda. The League will kick off at University of Nairobi grounds, followed by Catholic University of Eastern Africa, United States International University and Kenyatta University with the semi-finals moving to Egerton University (EGU). The University of Nairobi grounds will host the third and fourth play-off as well as the final. “This is a very exciting chapter in the development of Rugby in Kenya. Some of our rugby stars in the clubs and Kenya Sevens and Simbas are former or current University students,” said Chabeda, adding that the base of base those playing the game will widen and give more players an opportunity to develop before the big jump to club rugby. Chebeda noted that the university population of over 300,000 offers many for rivalries and big spectator potential. “With 50-60 per cent of the typical rugby spectator between 18-26 years, corporate opportunities reach new young customers in rugby is the perfect place,” said Chabeda.  