Amos Kipruto jetted back to the country on Wednesday a happy man after coming second in last Sunday's Berlin Marathon. Kipruto, who clocked 2:06:20, was decorated in a ceremonial plant popularly known as sinendet and a traditional hat meant for heroes. Business came to a standstill at Eldoret International Airport after his family, friends and fans broke into song and dance when he landed. Addressing the press, Kipruto said that he prepared well for the race and was happy to have emerged second behind the world record holder Eliud Kipchoge. “I went prepared for the race and I knew there were two good athletes who were going for the record (Wilson Kipsang and Eliud Kipchoge). I ran my own race and I didn’t have any pressure, but I was surprised to emerge second after 42km,” said Kipruto. He added that the weather was perfect and he would always look forward to going back to the race where he wants to do better. “Next year I would love to go back to Berlin, which has rich history of athletes breaking the world record, but that will remain a subject of discussion with my coach and the management,” he said. He will be taking a break from training before he starts his preparations for the next season, where he is looking forward to participating in one of the major races. “I’m happy with my progress and I will be looking forward to the next season where I will be eyeing victory,” said the athlete, who is managed by 2 Running Club. Kipruto was participating his second Major Marathon race after emerging third in Tokyo Marathon back in February. “I was third in my first Major Marathon and having come in second position in Berlin, it motivates me a lot and I know I will be going for a win in future,” said the Kapsabet-based athlete. In 2016, his debut in Rome Marathon saw him emerge the winner, before finishing in 12th position in the Amsterdam Marathon, where he clocked 2:09:06 the same year. In 2017, Kipruto won the Seoul Marathon after running in 2:05:54, before finishing fifth in the Amsterdam Marathon in 2:05:43. He started this season well after participating in his first World Marathon Majors race in Tokyo. The athlete thanked all his fans and dedicated his good performance to all those who wished him well in his preparation for the race. “I want to thank everyone who encouraged me when I was training, before I went to Berlin and all those who congratulated me after the race. I’m dedicating my good performance to them." Kipruto's wife, Janet Samoei said that she encouraged her husband to go and run a beautiful race and was surprised with his second place finish. “I knew my husband was going to be third because he was running against world beaters, but his second position came as a surprise to me. We are very happy as a family,” she said.   She will be hosted to a big reception on Saturday at her home in Kapsabet.