Deputy President William Ruto on Friday told his opponents that his frequent tours around the country have nothing to do with 2022 politics. Contrary to what his rivals think, he has not started his campaigns for the presidency, he said, adding that the political season ended with last year's General Election and that it's time for development. Mr Ruto, who spoke on the second day of his five-day visit to Coast, said some politicians are panicking because of his tours yet all he is concerned with is development projects. "Some leaders should stop being worried. We are here for development since the time for politics will come. Let’s focus our energies on development," he said at Kakuyuni in Malindi. DEVELOPMENT He said the Jubilee government has decided to work with all elected leaders to achieve President Uhuru Kenyatta's development goals. "Leaders should now get to work and those doubting the Building Bridges Initiative should in fact realise that Kenyans want to see this country moving forward in terms of development," he said. Coast Parliamentary Group (CPG) chairman Suleiman Dori told ODM to stop threatening MPs working with Mr Ruto. "We were with you in 2013 and 2017. You got our support but you did not win. Why should you feel bad if we shift our support to the DP? He has at the moment shown us he is the only person who cares about us," Mr Dori said. Kilifi North MP Owen Baya urged President Kenyatta and his deputy to include tourism as a fifth agenda in the Jubilee development plans. JOBS Apart from the big four agenda, he said tourism has the potential to employ about 500,000 more people and improve the economy of Coast. Other MPs present were Michael Kingi (Magarini), Dan Mwashako (Wundanyi), Sharif Athman (Lamu East), Stanley Muthama (Lamu West) and women representatives Getrude Mbeyu (Kilifi) and Lydia Haika (Taita Taveta). Others were Badi Twalib (Jomvu), Anwar Oloitiptip (Lamu Senator), Benjamin Tayari (Kinango), Suleiman Dori (Msambweni), Ali Wario (Bura), Ali Hashaka (Garsen), Juma Wario (Senator Tana River), Christine Zawadi (Nominated Senator), Said Hiribae (Galole) and Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga). Mr Ruto launched construction of the Sh2.3 billion Baricho Bridge and approach roads along River Sabaki. "This bridge is part of our efforts to initiate projects that have a direct impact on the lives of Kenyans." The bridge, which will be completed in three years, will be capped by 12 kilometres of roads on each side of Lango Baya and Baricho. "We should now focus our energies on the construction of roads, provision of health, education, connection of electricity among other development projects," he added.   Opposition chief free to vie for presidency in 2022 if Nasa’s power-sharing pact is not renewed