Ugenya MP Christopher Karan has questioned why his predecessor Mr David Ochieng’ wants his seat declared vacant even after challenging the nullification of his election by the Court of Appeal at the Supreme Court. “I know he (Mr Ochieng’) wants the Speaker to declare my seat vacant, but being a lawyer, he should know that I moved to Supreme Court and the case will be heard next week,” Mr Karan said. “If someone is cheating him (Mr Ochieng’) that he can use short cuts to come back to Parliament, then he is day dreaming,” added the Ugenya MP. Mr Ochieng’ is said to have submitted documents of the ruling of Court of Appeal in Kisumu that nullified Mr Karan’s election win to the Speaker of the National Assembly. The legislator questioned the motive of the former lawmaker in submitting the ruling of the court to the office of the Clerk and that of the Speaker. MET SPEAKER Mr Karan said he has met the Speaker of the National Assembly Justin Muturi over the matter. He said that Mr Muturi has assured him that no documents will be accepted until the case is heard and determined by the Supreme Court. The MP said even if his win is nullified again by the Supreme Court, he is confident of beating Mr Ochieng’ in a by-election. “I defeated him in the August 2017 poll and I will still do the same if we go back to a by-election,” Mr Karan said. He said the court case challenging his win in last years’ poll, which has been going on for one year now, has dragged his development agenda in the constituency. ELECTORAL MALPRACTICES Last month, the Court of Appeal upheld the High Court’s decision to nullify Mr Karan’s election, citing electoral malpractices. Justice Hannah Okwengu pointed out that the irregularities subverted the will of the voters. Just like at the High Court, Justice Okwengu indicated that the MP for Ugenya, Siaya County, and the Orange Democratic Movement fraternity engaged in a smear campaign against his predecessor, Mr David Ochieng, and the Movement for Democracy and Growth party. Mr Karan however, moved to Supreme Court. The case will be heard next week.   The campaign was perverted, rules Justice Tripsisa Cherere.