Security agencies hunting Al-Shabaab militants who fled on Monday at Taksile in Pandanguo have cautioned hospitals in Lamu, Tana River, and Garissa counties against treating individuals with gunshot wounds. On Monday, the Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) soldiers operating in Lamu am-bushed Al-Shabaab militants at Taksile, deep inside Boni Forest, and killed 10 while others fled with gunshot wounds. During the 6.45am attack, seven AK-47 rifles and assorted ammunition were recovered. Three KDF soldiers sustained injuries. Speaking to Nation on Tuesday, Linda Boni Operation Director Joseph Kanyiri said security personnel in areas earmarked for the multi-agency operation are on high alert. REPORT SUSPECTS Mr Kanyiri said health facilities, especially those in Lamu, Tana River and Garissa, should report individuals seeking treatment with gunshot wounds to security agencies. He said some of the terrorists who were wounded during the Monday attack might seek medical assistance from such facilities. “The health facilities should also check on pharmaceuticals and bandages that may end up with the enemy to attend to gunshot wounds sustained in the attack. This goes to both public and private facilities,” said Mr Kanyiri. He added that the security men were also processing details relating to the Monday incident, and called on citizens to cooperate with them. “We must commend our security men for the good work. The community should as well collaborate with our security officers by reporting any suspicious persons with gunshot wounds as well as those they suspect are a threat to security,” said Mr Kanyiri. The Linda Boni boss’ sentiments come a month after he cautioned locals, particularly those in counties covered by the multi-agency security operation, against harbouring Al-Shabaab militants and giving them information that has to some extent enabled the terrorists to launch attacks in the region. He said the move has affected the officers' efforts of wiping out the Somalia-based Al-Qaeda linked group from the dense forest.  