OPPO’s latest handset, which was launched in the country on Monday, is the F9 and it comes with VOOC fast charge support. This gives the phone two hours talk time after just five minutes of charging it. Another feature of the phone is a 19.5:9 unique Water-drop Screen design with a ratio of 90.8 per cent, a front with a top notch that hosts the receiver, camera and light sensor for more condensed space and more compact layout. According to Jesse Wu, OPPO Kenya brand manager, the design brings the handset a symmetrical beauty allowing users to view more content on the 6.23-inch screen. “Today’s customer is in constant move. We have therefore developed OPPO F9 to fit in with this nature and lifestyle, and to create a new trend in the industry. The device brings to our customers the VOOC Flash Charge, the world’s first low voltage fast charging technology, symbolising how the company pioneers technology into the market,” said James Irungu, PR and Communications Manager of OPPO Kenya. Voltage Open Loop Multi-Step Constant Current Charging (VOCC) is a technology that has been developed exclusively by and for OPPO.    FAST CHARGE The VOOC technology applies a low voltage fast charging mechanism to deliver rapid charge at a speed four times faster than the normal conventional charging technology while ensuring a safe charging process with five layers of protection from the charging adapter to smartphone, including low temperature and voltage. The device comes to the market in two colours – Sunrise Red and Twilight Blue – and a Starry Purple will be available in the market before the end of the year. F9 for the first time applies a gradient design on the side frame, making the sides and the back a naturally connected whole. Based on Android 8.1, the phone comes in two variants a 4GB RAM and a 6GB RAM both having a 64GB storage, which can further be expanded with an internal microSD card of up to 256GB. For the first time, the F series is equipped with dual rear cameras (16MP + 2MP) also pioneering the 25MP A.I front camera. It also brings the ColorOS 5.2 Operating System to create a smarter interactive experience for users. The F9 is equipped with Google Lens that identifies objects and shows relevant search results and information. The device has been on pre-order since September 10 and will officially go on sale on September 24 at a price of Sh35,990 for the 4GB version and for the 6GB for Sh37,990.   Going by the hype around it, people seem to love it.