Q. I am an aggrieved editor of a local publishing firm based in Kisumu. Next to it is a vehicle parking business, owned and run by the publishing firm. I drive to work every day, something that I have been doing for the last three years. However, today I woke up to an email that all staff associated with the publishing firm will be expected to pay parking fee starting from next month. When I joined the company, the HR clearly stated that parking is free. Should I go back to the HR and request that the company for my parking fees?  The benefits that you can lawfully claim are the ones stated in your contract and if this is included, you have a right to seek compensation. Employers offer other privileges suitable from time to time as duty of care to their employees but these are not guaranteed. The most important action an employer ought to take when privileges cease is to communicate need for change within sufficient time. You have every reason to feel short-changed as waking up to an email is not the best way of communicating change that abruptly takes a way a privilege, especially one that has financial implications. Indeed, a good employer would have engaged those affected well in advance to prepare them in a humane way and create a better understanding about the intended changes. It is the duty of the HR leader to advise on how such consultations ought to be handled and certainly, in a way that builds relationships and collaborations for a better workplace culture. You have a right to raise your grievance with your employer. Issues to raise during the meeting would be to seek for clarification on the reasons behind the decision. It could be aimed at generating more revenue for the company to safeguard what could be drastic cost measures, but most important is for you and those affected to understand the rationale. It would be good to understand why the communication was done so abruptly without concern to yourselves as key stakeholders. The decision taken has made you feel less valued and affected your morale and a good HR leader know better than to communicate such a change via an overnight email. You could seek some grace period before the decision is implemented so that you can prepare yourselves for the additional cost. Your employer maybe of the opinion that the pay as you park expectation is not significant, but that conclusion can only be made by those taking up the cost. You could explore possibility of certain parking slots being reserved for yourselves for free on first in basis. Finally, you could explore a discounted rate for employees which not only gives special treatment to yourselves but reduces your cost.  *** Do you have a question? Send it to our team: mynetwork@ke.nationmedia.com   Linking expected salary to your budget is a common mistake to avoid.