Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka has said he has no political debt with anyone and that no leader should expect payment from any quarters. Mr Musyoka said those asking to be paid back in 2022 for having supported certain leaders were mistaken as, in politics, there were no debts to be paid. “In politics there is no debt. You get what you go for. If you go for nothing, you get nothing,” said Mr Musyoka who was speaking at an event hosted by Nairobi County governor Mike Sonko to commemorate the death of his father on Saturday evening. Mr Musyoka was responding to calls at the event from a number of lawmakers allied to the Wiper party for him to go for the top seat in the next General election, saying that it was time that he is also supported by other politicians. BACK KALONZO Borabu MP Ben Momanyi, a member of Wiper, called for Mr Odinga not to run in 2022 but ‘return a hand’ to Mr Musyoka who has supported him twice in his unsuccessful presidential bids in 2013 and 2017. “Raila should not have any intentions of running again in 2022. He should now back Kalonzo who supported him in 2013, and 2017,” said MP Momanyi. The lawmaker’s sentiments were echoed by Kilome MP Thadeus Nzambia who said that leaders from Ukambani will settle for nothing less than the former vice president gunning for the top seat. Supporters of the Wiper Party Leader have been agitating for Orange Democratic Party Leader Raila Odinga to support Mr Musyoka for the presidency in 2022 since Mr Musyoka has supported him in 2013 and 2017. BIG FOUR AGENDA Those of Deputy President William Ruto have similarly been asking President Uhuru Kenyatta to support Mr Ruto for the presidency in 2022 arguing that Mr Ruto has stood with Mr Kenyatta in three election campaigns. But the former vice president stated the country must move forward without being tied down by issues political debts, adding that ‘leaders saying it is payback time show a serious inadequacy and lack of leadership credentials’. He said the Wiper Party would support President Kenyatta’s implementation of the Big Four agenda pointing out that a member of the party, Ms Rose Museo who is Makueni County Woman Representative, is in the Building Bridges committee appointed by President Kenyatta. BREAK RANKS At the same time, Mr Musyoka warned that he was ready to break ranks with his ODM counterparts in the event that a by-election for Embakasi South constituency is called if former MP Irshad Sumra and incumbent Julius Mawathe cannot reach a consensus. Mr Musyoka said that if it were up to the National Super Alliance (Nasa) leadership — made up of ODM party leader Raila Odinga, ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi, Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetangula and himself — they would not have allowed the competition between the two coalition members to happen.   Ruto says ongoing debate about political debts is unnecessary.