It was remarkable seeing the bipartisan wave of anger that swept Kenya recently over the implementation of a 16 percent value added tax on petroleum products. There aren’t many things, except, perhaps, unga (maize flour) prices, which ordinarily generate that level of consensus outrage across the political divide. The general argument is that the cost of living is already too high, and pump prices are already at wallet-bursting levels, as it were. And then there is the classic one you encounter everywhere in Africa — that additional revenues don’t make any difference to the lives of the people, because they are simply stolen by corrupt officials and politicians. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s intervention to have the VAT halved to eight percent has mollified only a few, with many feeling that it still is too high. INSECURITY While the issue of fuel cost is a big one, it’s likely not the primary reason for the loud protests. Rather, the reason is to be found in for whom the fuel is unaffordable. There are trends in Africa’s broader economies, and in the urban areas, that if leadership paid attention to more closely would help predict the kind of backlash that greeted the fuel VAT in Kenya. For example, a few days ago, Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni was speaking on television about the rampant insecurity in the south of the country. He cited the dramatic increase in the number of cars and motorcycles in the country over the past 30 years, to make the point that monitoring the bad guys using vehicles to commit crimes and get away had become a Herculean challenge that the government didn’t have to face before. Kenya has nothing on Uganda when it comes to the boda boda (motorcycle taxi) as anyone who’s visited the capital Kampala knows. MOTORISTS President Museveni said that in 1987, there were some 4,187 registered motorcycles in the country. This year, the number is 1,063,922, most of them boda bodas. Twenty years ago in Uganda, and certainly in Kenya, too, the fellows who felt the pinch of fuel prices were car owners and public service passengers, to whom the prices were passed. Today, you also have boda boda people, who are several times more than car owners, to contend with. In the case of Uganda, the daily newspaper, The Monitor, said in a report last year that boda boda is easily the second-largest employer in the country after agriculture. Those are, obviously, very many people. IMPORTATION The margins in the boda boda business are small, and the people who use it, many of them among the lowest earners in Africa’s burgeoning urban areas, are hyper-sensitive to the smallest of price changes. In the case of Kenya, it has been compounded by what might call the “boda bodasation” of car ownership. Maybe until 10 years ago, the profile of the first-time car owner who didn’t get it from his or her parents was standard in Kenya. A 26- to 30-year-old employee in some office buying a Sh500,000 second-hand Japanese import using a loan from their employer. But the gig economy (hustling) has exploded in Kenya, and the import of even cheaper, smaller second-hand Japanese cars has risen. It used to be that the Toyota Vitz was the cheapest car one could buy, but now it is a near-luxury. There are all sorts that one gets for under Sh200,000 — even from hustle money. INCOME In turn, the demand for these cars has been driven by the expansion of Nairobi and towns, fuelled by both the population growth and the labyrinth of new by-passes and outer ring roads, that led to a boom in relatively affordable housing for early entrants into the job market in the far-flung parts of the capital city. Therefore, unlike the average car owner of old, who, after buying a motor vehicle had anything up to Sh500,000 lying in an account and wouldn’t feel the fuel pinch, today’s is younger and has barely Sh25,000 left after paying rent and other bills. The boda boda sector and “small” car owners are products of some of the few dynamic things that are happening in the African economies today. We cannot manage economies for them as we did 20 years ago. The competition for their pockets is intense, and they are touchy about who reaches in. One industry that understood that quickly is the mobile phone companies. There was, indeed, a time when the cheapest airtime you could buy was Sh500. Today, it is Sh5. The telcos have grown rich and fat, and the economy has benefited immensely, hasn’t it? Mr Onyango-Obbo is the publisher of Africapedia.com and explainer Roguechiefs.com. Twitter: @cobbo3  