The voice on the phone told an elderly farmer from Norfolk that he had won £1.5 million (Sh196m) in a lottery. All he had to do was pay an administration fee and the money was his. His daughter-in-law, who asked not to be named, said: “It started small, about £300, but they didn’t stop at that. He didn’t get any money and they kept ringing.” It was six years before the fraud was discovered by the family and by then the farmer, in his 80s, had paid the conmen £450,000, almost his entire life savings. Said the daughter-in-law, “I think the scammers are absolutely evil, but they are also very clever in how they do it and they make it sound very plausible.” The farmer’s story was reported by a BBC investigation which discovered that crooks scammed nearly 49,000 older people in the UK in the past year, almost double the number of three years ago. SHAME However, this particular offence is known to be seriously underreported because the victims are often too ashamed to admit they have been tricked. Professor Keith Brown of Bournemouth University, said: “We’re talking about millions of victims, not thousands. If this was a street crime, there would be a huge outcry, but it’s hidden behind closed doors.” One unnamed lady said she was too embarrassed to admit she had been scammed and finally just stopped answering her telephone in the hope that her nightmare would end. Experts gave these danger signs when callers make contact: 1. They don’t know your name. 2. They avoid answering your questions. 3. The phone connection is a bad one. 4. They ask you to install software. 5. They ask you to call another number. * * * If you should wonder about the changing nature of Britain, consider this: In 1939, there were 60 people called Patel living here; now there are 101,463. In that same year, there were seven Hussains and today there are 56,223. Among other big increases are Mia, Wang, Zhang, Nowak, Martinez and Sanchez. Traditional British names such as Smith and Jones have “barely grown” in comparison, according to Ancestry.co.uk, which conducted the study. It said many names had travelled here from across the British Empire or as refugees. * * * Radiotherapy is a much-valued weapon against tumours inside the body, but getting the X-ray beams exactly on target has sometimes been hit and miss, as I have reason to know. In what clinicians describe as a major breakthrough, a machine has been developed which simultaneously scans tumours while delivering radiation doses exactly on target. It will be especially useful in treating tumours that shift in size and shape, including some which are actually moved by the patient’s breathing. Oncologist Alison Tree said the new technology “allows us to see the cancer more clearly and make sure the radiation goes where it is needed and not where it can cause harm”. What’s more, doses can be stronger so that patients will complete their treatment more quickly. Dr Tree described the system as “a dream come true”. She said, “In lung cancer, we would like to give higher doses but we have been limited because the tumour is often close to other vital structures in the chest”. The MR Linac machine has solved this problem. The Royal Marsden Hospital in London will treat prostate, rectal, bladder, cervical and eventually lung cancer. A second machine is being installed in a Manchester hospital. * * * Scammers on your phone or computer can be pretty smart but not all crooks are, as witness the following: A man walked into a store in America, put a 20-dollar bill on the counter and asked for change. When the assistant opened the cash drawer, the customer pulled a gun and demanded all the money in the machine, which the assistant hastily provided. The thief grabbed the cash and fled, leaving his 20-dollar bill on the counter. The total he got from the drawer: Fifteen dollars. In Birmingham, an alcoholic desperate for a drink decided he would smash a wine shop window, grab some booze and run. So he lifted a cinder block over his head and heaved it at the shop front. Unfortunately for the would-be thief, the window was made of reinforced Plexi-Glass and the cinder block bounced back and knocked him unconscious. Two men tried to pull the front off an ATM by chaining it to the bumper of their pickup truck. Instead of opening the machine, the chain pulled the bumper off the truck. Panicking, the men fled, leaving the bumper behind with their vehicle’s licence plate attached. In a Glasgow betting shop, Gary Rough brandished a cosh covered by a sock and demanded money. The assistant refused and an off-duty policeman who happened to be in the shop knocked the thief to the ground. It was then discovered that the cosh was a cucumber. Rough was jailed for 40 months. Gerryo69@hotmail.com  