For the last two days, newspaper readers in Migori County have not laid their hands on the local dailies. The residents said that unknown people have been buying all the newspapers by 6 am. On Saturday morning, a spot check by the Nation in the streets of Migori town revealed that all the leading local dailies were not on the streets. The situation was similar in Rongo, Awendo, Isebania and Kehancha. "Three people come around and order all the newspapers. They pay for all of them and even give us tips. Given that all we need is to sell the papers we have no option," said Fred Omondi, a newspaper vendor. READERS DISAPPOINTED Scores of readers who were eager to know the news making headlines were disappointed. "I am so disappointed that I could not get my favourite paper, Saturday Nation. I went to the news stands as early as 6 am. I could not even get the newspaper from from the supermarkets," said Mr Mark Sirwa, a Migori resident. The residents wondered who was behind the buying of the newspapers and why. However, a number of people linked 'scarcity' to the murder of Ms Sharon Otieno, the Rongo University student, whose body was found in Kodera forest in Homa Bay County early this week. The woman’s murder has dominated the headlines for the last couple of days. "Whoever wants us to stay in the dark because of Sharon's (Otieno) murder should know that they will not succeed as we are already aware of the latest developments," said Bramwel Mwita, another resident of the town. ABDUCTED The deceased had been abducted alongside 'Nation' journalist Barrack Oduor before she met her death. Mr Oduor narrowly escaped after he jumped from a speeding car. Migori Governor Okoth Obado’s personal assistant Michael Oyamo has been linked to the abduction and subsequent murder of the Rongo University student. Mr Oyamo is being detained by police. The governor has, however, remained silent although lawyer Cliff Ombeta on Friday appeared on his behalf during the post-mortem examination on Ms Sharon Otieno's body at Rachuonyo Level Four Hospital.   The detectives will also look into the attempted murder of Nation reporter Barrack Oduor.