Youth, especially those born and brought up in the slums, easily find their way into crime and drug abuse as a way to cope with frustrations such as lack of employment. Unfortunately, some of them have paid the ultimate price of death as a result of criminal associations while others go through life in a haze from drug intoxication.   In Nakuru, Sarakasi Amani Lazima – Civil Society Urban Development Platform (CSUDP) funded project – is helping marginalised youths steer clear of criminal activities as well as drugs through grass root intervention programmes and trainings. The initiative is led by choreographer Oscar Mwalo assisted by Joseph Kiige, popularly known as Jose Contez.  When was the group formed? Sarakasi Amani Lazima was formed in September 2017 with the aim of addressing various issues, including urban safety and security, poverty alleviation and creating employment.  What was the inspiration behind it? We realised that many talented young people in our community lacked mentorship or someone to just believe in them. Most of them wound up in crime and drug abuse; they wasted their lives. Besides dancing, our programmes include mentorship on life skills such as personal hygiene, character development, interpersonal relationships and so forth. Oscar Mwalo does a splendid job of guiding the youth.    Do members of the group earn any income? Oh yes, that is one of the pillars of the initiative – to help young people earn a living. We get paid when we perform at events and fitness studios and the money is divided among the team members. These gigs are our main source of income and help sustain the initiative. We also retain a small percentage of our earnings in our savings account.  What are some of the gigs the dance group has performed at? Notable ones include the closing ceremony of Sportpesa Supercup event at Afraha Stadium in Nakuru, the Chizika na Russia event organised by DStv and Coca-Cola at Nakuru Athletics Club, and the 2018 Madaraka Day celebrations at Afraha Stadium, Nakuru.  This is a great thing you are doing, quite an achievement. How does it make you feel? We are proud about every student’s achievement. It has not been an easy journey.    What are some of the group’s everyday activities? Mainly organising events and community workshops. During school holidays, we share our dance skills with children at the Menengai social hall.  Talking of dance skills, how often do you rehearse? We practise three days a week, from Wednesday to Friday starting from around 9am to 1pm.  Have you partnered with other groups or organisations? Yes, we have. We work with like-minded groups such as Sarakasi Trust, Sarakasi Dancers, Repacted Kenya, Ministry of Culture Nakuru and Tobias Foundation to improve our community.    Any challenges encountered so far? Sure. We have a shortage of training facilities as we had initially budgeted for 15 young people. Currently, we have 23 on board. The other challenge is that very few people are willing to support the youth without strings attached. This is quite disheartening.  What does Sarakasi Amani Lazima hope to achieve in the long run? We hope to create a self-sustaining generation in our community, to inspire positive attitudes among our youth, reinforce their self-esteem and empower them all round through performing arts and other disciplines.   A project management class changed her view on seeking employment.