MultiChoice Africa revealed 60 hopefuls who they termed as “the future of Africa’s film and television industry”. They will be the first students of the MultiChoice Talent Factory Academy. The candidates were chosen after a two-month long process of shortlisting candidates from over 3, 000 entries from 13 countries in Africa followed by a rigorous interview and adjudication process by a group of film and television industry experts and regional Academy Directors. Twenty emerging filmmakers from East Africa will begin a 12-month training programme on October 1. They were selected based on their industry-related qualifications and skills, as well as their passion to narrate Africa’s unique stories. 11 Kenyan filmmakers qualified for the programme and they include: Adala Makhulo, Michelle Angawa, Tecla Joan, Shilla Gathoni, Mary Wanjiku, Samuel Makau, Hillary Lanogwa, Karanja Ngendo, Antony Njoroge, Millan Lwanga and Hillary Sabuni. Tanzania had four candidates qualify namely: Sarah Kimario, Wilson Nkya, Jamal Kishuli and Jane Moshi, and so did Uganda: Cissy Nalumansi, Hilda Awori, Aaron Tamale and Casey Lugada. Ethiopia was represented by one candidate, Fisehatsion Nibret. MultiChoice Africa will sponsor the students’ tuition, accommodation and stipend for the duration of their training in each regional hub. TRAINING The MTF Academy students will be provided with skillsets to develop their talent, connect with industry professionals and tell authentic African stories through a comprehensive curriculum comprising theoretical knowledge and hands-on experience in cinematography, editing, audio production and storytelling. “We’re exceptionally impressed with the calibre of young Africans chosen to be part of the inaugural MultiChoice Talent Factory. Their applications illustrated their passion for the continent – they talk about making African stories go viral and getting international audiences addicted to high-quality and engaging local content,” says award-winning script writer Njoki Muhoho, who will spearhead the East Africa MTF Academy hub in Kenya. During the programme, MTF Academy students will produce television and film content that will be aired on local M-Net channels across the MultiChoice platforms including Africa Magic, Maisha Magic East, Maisha Magic Bongo, Zambezi Magic, M-Net and SuperSport to reach African audiences on the DStv and GOtv platforms. Upon graduation from the MultiChoice Talent Factory Academy, the MTF student will leave with the knowledge and skills to contribute professionally to Africa’s film and television industry. “As a company that is deeply rooted in Kenya, we understand that many young, aspiring filmmakers have the capacity to learn and strengthen their skillset to give back to their communities but may not be financially equipped to do so. The MultiChoice Talent Factory focuses on making sure that those gems are nurtured and their talent developed in order to contribute meaningfully to Africa’s creative industry,” said Eric Odipo, Managing Director MultiChoice Kenya.    The festival will play host to a number of respected filmmakers across the globe.