Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga has comforted ailing retired politician Grace Onyango, saying she reminds the country of the torture a number of leaders suffered under the oppressive Kanu rule. Ms Onyango became the first Kenyan woman mayor when she was elected in Kisumu in 1965, replacing Mathias Ondiek. She was also the first woman MP for Kisumu Town following elections in 1969. SHARP, STRONG Though aged and in a wheel chair, the 91-year-old appeared sharp, strong and with a good sense of humour, while hosting Mr Odinga and other leaders at her Kisumu home. The leaders, who arrived at around 2.30 pm on Sunday, included Kisumu Deputy Governor Mathews Owili, Senate Minority Leader James Orengo (Siaya), Senator Fred Outa, Speaker Onyango Oloo, and Woman Representatives Pamela Odhiambo (Migori) and Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay). Others were MPs Jared Okello (Nyando), Onyango Koyoo (Muhoroni), Shakeel Shabbir (Kisumu East), Fred Ouda (Kisumu Central) and Aduma Owuor (Nyakach). Mr Odinga narrated how at that time, leaders faced difficulties expressing their rights. “Anybody who would go against the government would face arrest or intimidation,” he said. POLICE Mr Orengo recalled how he was dumped at Ms Onyango's gate after police released him from detention. “They wanted to leave me at the market but I told them 'you can’t leave me here ... I am very sick'. I asked them to take me 'where Grace lives',” he said to laughter. He added that the former MP, also known as the 'iron lady', took him in, rested him on a sofa set and took care of him. In vivid remembrance of the day, Ms Onyango wondered how police knew [the location of] her home because they left Mr Orengo right at her entrance. “I wondered how they knew me. I thought they would arrest me but I realised they knew me,” she said. THREATS Ms Onyango pointed out that she was threatened when she was part of the parliamentary committee probing the death of JM Kariuki. “University students warned us not to eat anything at State House when we took our final report on JM Kariuki. They warned that we could be poisoned,” she said. She thanked Mr Odinga and the other leaders for visiting. Mr Odinga later left for a football tournament at Jomo Kenyatta Sports Ground, an occasion at which he was the chief guest.   Of what value is a powerful office if its pursuit must cost lives and tear the country apart every five years?