With a 700,000-strong workforce, 218,973 of the civil servants spread in the national and county governments, the public wage bill takes a big chunk of Kenya’s revenue. In the 2016/2017 financial year, the public service wage bill was Sh650 billion, more than half of the revenue. As we ponder how government revenue is allocated and expended, let us critically assess how efficiently and effectively it is invested through the public service. That is timely, particularly with the new concerted assault on corruption, a key hindrance to development. Public service should improve the welfare of citizens, meeting their needs in a cost-effective manner with value for money. A recent study on the national and county governments found that public service had structural and capacity challenges that hindered efficiency. WORKLOAD ANALYSIS A human resource audit and skills assessment, as well as a workload analysis, found that public service was not at optimal levels and was considerably costly. Inefficiencies result in poor services. Its problems are multifaceted and the genesis is inefficient management of programmes. Inefficiencies in service delivery also nurture unethical practices. The nexus between inefficiency and corruption is not easily discernible but studies by international development organisations such as the United Nations show the real driver of corruption as inefficiencies in the management of public service programmes. Lethargic attitudes in the body of human resource may lead to misappropriation of funds, fraud, theft, embezzlement and other vices taking root. A lacklustre and unmotivated workforce is unlikely to be diligent, exposing operations to transparency and accountability challenges. ACCESS TO PUBLIC SERVICES In 2016, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission estimated that a third of the Budget was being lost to graft. The Auditor-General’s reports also reveal these malpractices. One of the government’s strategies to improve service delivery and reduce corruption is use of e-government — application of ICT- and Internet-based digital interaction between it and citizens. Initially promoted as a means to improving internal management efficiency in public administration, it is increasingly being applied strategically to enhance and expedite citizen access to public services. South Korea’s capital, Seoul, integrated e-government into its service system and registered unprecedented gains in improved service delivery and elimination of corruption. Consequently, it was introduced in the national public service system and the country has since evolved into a best practice case study. In Kenya, e-government is taking root and is bound to spread. It has increased efficiency in the road transport sector through the Transport Integrated Management System, with licences applied for and renewed online. WEB- ENABLED SYSTEM The tax payment system uses an e-government web-enabled system, which has expedited tax returns and payments. Huduma Centres use it to provide and expedite many services previously difficult to access. The ‘2016 EACC Corruption Perception Survey’ identified the services as most frequently sought and, therefore, attract most bribery requests. But e-government has effectively eliminated the bribery “tax” that the services attracted. While e-government may not be the panacea for all inefficiencies in public service, the ongoing reforms will make it more efficient. President Uhuru Kenyatta has a strategic vision for a clean efficient government that can facilitate the realisation of the ‘Big Four’ agenda. More transformative reforms are under consideration by the Inter-Governmental Steering Committee for the Capacity Assessment and Rationalisation of the Public Service programme. INCREASED APATHY A global survey by the World Bank in 2008 documented the consequences of inefficient public service systems to include increased apathy to government and its institutions, apathy to political processes, increased tolerance to violence as a means to political ends and citizens “voting with their feet” by emigrating altogether. With efficient management, we can reduce wastage, seal corruption loopholes, enhance productivity and have a more satisfied citizenry. Ultimately, the vision of the ‘Big Four’ will be realised and the devolution dream achieved — through a tenacious public service reform regime. Prof Kobia is Cabinet Secretary, Ministry of Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs. cs@psyg.go.ke  