He has now embarked on modernisation of county buildings after improving health care Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has finally explained why it took him more than five years to turn around the county’s image by beautifying the tourism hub. In an interview with a local radio station in Mombasa, the governor said he was hit by numerous challenges in his first term in office. He cited the deteriorated health sector which he had to completely turnaround and equip with modern facilities to ensure residents don’t have to travel to India for specialised care. Mr Joho said he started by transforming Coast Provincial General Hospital where health workers can now perform open heart surgeries and kidney transplants among other specialised services. CONDUCTING CHEMOTHERAPY “We now have a cancer centre, we are conducting chemotherapy and we have an oncologist,” he said. Mr Joho said health is his first priority insisting that for prosperity and development, there must be good healthcare services. Listeners kept calling asking why he took long to undertake the current projects. “In development agenda, you must first lay the foundation so that the projects can stand even after leaving the office. We had vision 2035 which we launched in Mombasa, if you scrutinised it, you would have realised everything that is ongoing was in the plans,” the governor said. He says his next step is modernisation of the county houses and optimising natural resources. EASILY ACCEPTABLE “Many people asked me why I chose blue and white in restoration but we conducted research on what is easily acceptable. Blue and white identifies with us due to the ocean, we are the only county with port, blue gives calmness,” he said. He expressed excitement that people have been photographing the county’s new look images and posting the photos on social media. Mr Joho has been transforming the county’s image, many buildings within the Central Business District have been painted in Egyptian blue and white colours while the pavements in town centre have been fitted with red cabro blocks. The governor also shutdown Kibarani, the largest and oldest dumpsite which was an eyesore to both residents and visitors to the port town. The renovation of Mombasa CBD, comes ahead of a major international tourism conference next month.   The directive comes two weeks after Mombasa officials engaged residents in a public forum on the implementation of the policy.