Murang’a County residents are at a crossroads on whether to pay their water bills or not, following Governor Mwangi wa Iria's directive that they should not settle their bills until he gives the way forward. "No water consumer should be coerced to pay their water bills.....because they claim they are private companies and can therefore not purport to collect money from members of public to run a private affair," he said. But water firms have defied Mr Wa Iria's directive and have been notifying customers to pay their bills or else they will be cut-off. Equally, Mr Wa Iria has also sponsored an advert through a local vernacular radio station and sent text messages advising the locals not to pay bills owed to the firms until his administration announces a new water account. "Serikali ya Murang’a inawajulisha kutolipa pesa za maji mpaka itoe idhini na ipeane account mpya. Usikubali maji ikatwe, ikikatwa piga 0745438947 irudishwe (The county government of Murang’a urges customers not to pay their water bills until it authorises and announces a new account. Don’t allow your water to be disconnected and when that happens call 0745438947)," the message reads. LOCALS CONFUSEDNonetheless, residents have continued receiving invoices. "Dear Onesmus M A/c no 10025-0014663, your September 2018 bill is Sh2,800, Sewerage Sh1,400; monthly total [is] Sh4,200, pay before 17/09/2018 to avoid disconnection," a message read in part. A resident, Mr Mugo, said: "We don’t know what to do. The governor has asked us not to pay but the water companies have issued a deadline for paying the bills." He urged both players to settle their differences as continued wrangles would hurt the sector. MUNGA VS WA IRIA Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company (Muwasco) chairman Peter Munga urged the consumers to pay their bills to ensure smooth running of the firms. "We cannot make money when we advocate for free things. Nyumba Kumi initiative officials should apply pressure to those who would fail to pay their water bills," he said when he met stakeholders on Friday. He urged the officials to ensure the bills are settled.   Munga wants the county boss jailed for seven months for disobeying court orders.