Most Kenyans are directly or indirectly affected by cancer: If one is not sick, a relative, friend, colleague, neighbour or chama member is. At least 40,000 cases are reported in Kenya annually, up from 20,000 five years ago. Globally, cancer is killing more people than HIV, malaria and tuberculosis (TB) combined. And it is the third-largest killer in Kenya after infectious and cardiovascular diseases. Why is cancer fast turning into a plague, so much so that some would rather get HIV? Why the spike? Wild speculation is emerging — that, like HIV, it is a disease “sent to finish us”! There are two schools of thought. One holds that cancer has always been with us; what changed is the diagnostic technology and population. WITCHCRAFT Death from cancer used to be attributed to witchcraft or unknown causes, while more people means high statistical probability and prevalence. Furthermore, people live longer today. The second, predominant one argues that cancer is a recently man-made disease. Manchester University Egyptologists studied hundreds of mummies looking for cancer in ancient societies. Only one case was confirmed. The scientists then worked up through the centuries and found that cancer was almost unknown until the Industrial Revolution, 200 years ago — implying that it could be related to rapid economic development. Prof Rosalie David, an Egyptologist involved in the study, says there is nothing in the natural environment to cause cancer, so, “it has to be a man-made disease…pollution and changes to our diet and lifestyle”. And the disease is not discriminating on age, gender, socioeconomic class or education level. It is no longer associated with elderly rich people. But studies show cancer affects mostly people under 75 — a generation born and raised at a time of accelerated use of possible cancer-promoting substances (carcinogens) and lifestyles. MISUSE OF CHEMICALS If economic activities or lifestyle are to blame, so what possibly happened, at least in Kenya? First, to boost agricultural production, there was widespread misuse of chemical fertilisers and sprays in farms in the 1970s and ’80s, much so in central Kenya, possibly explaining the high rate of throat cancer in some counties. In fact, many agricultural chemicals that are banned around the world for their possible cancer links were, for a long time, heavily used in Kenya. We can never be too sure of their impact on human health and environment but, the fact that they have been banned in their very countries of origin could indicate something serious with them. And they may have ended up in the food chain. BANNED HERBICIDES A 2015 report by the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), a World Health Organization (WHO) agency, flagged glyphosate as a possible carcinogen. Glyphosate is the main ingredient in Roundup. Though banned in many countries, the herbicide is used in Kenya. Children who participated in the spraying of crops, mostly without protection, as a part of family economy are now adults, who could be facing health problems due to excessive chemical exposure then. It is no consolation that these chemicals were also used in the West, where their impact on human health is questioned. Secondly, economic expansion meant more pollution. You need a three-month break from Nairobi to realise how obnoxious the air in the city is. The American Cancer Society associates lead with kidney, brain and lung tumours. Until 2005, leaded petrol was in use in Kenya, where the heavy metal is still used to make paints. Sadly, the country has no policy guidelines on its use in paints, exposing many people to health risks. EXHAUST FUMESExhaust fumes from improperly burned diesel is suspected to cause larynx cancer. The IARC has actually fingered it as possible carcinogen. Yet, our roads are full of smoke-spewing vehicles. Burning fuel inefficiently is dangerous. Yet many poor Kenyans have to use firewood in crude burners in poorly ventilated kitchens. Thirdly, this generation wolfs down tonnes of junk food loaded with trans fats, sugar, salt, preservatives, additives, dyes and mercury, all suspected to contribute to conditions ideal for cancer. STRICT POLICIES Reports say exercise is related with lower risk for over 10 cancers. Yet we sit in cars for hours and slouch on the sofa watching television after a day seated at a desk. Add alcohol to the mix and the effects can be disastrous.If there is any intervention on cancer at individual and institutional levels, it should be on ‘lifestyle’ factors that have contributed to this modern scourge. Besides strict policies against motor vehicle pollution, people should be encouraged to eat healthy foods and exercise. Dr Mbataru teaches at Kenyatta University. pmbataru@gmail.com.  