Nairobi County MCAs have not honoured summonses by the anti-graft commission concerning unethical conduct in the removal of Speaker Beatrice Elachi. A total of 16 ward representatives were to appear before the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) on Tuesday over the fracas that occurred at the assembly precincts on Monday. NO INTIMIDATION The letter from the commission warned that failure to appear would lead to penal consequences. County Assembly Majority Leader Abdi Guyo, who was in the list of the 16, said they will honour the summonses but only after their four-day retreat in Mombasa County. “We were within the law to impeach the Speaker so we cannot be intimidated by anyone. However, we will honour the summons,” Mr Guyo said on Wednesday. EACC spokesperson Yasin Amaro confirmed that the legislators did not appear and that they said they were out of the capital. “They are all in Mombasa attending what they claims is a workshop. We have verified that. We will wait for them to come back and then ask them to appear before us. They are [16 in number] right now,” said Mr Amaro. THE ACCUSATIONS The EACC wants the MCAs to facilitate investigations into alleged unethical conduct by ward representatives who were involved in the scuffle. They are also accused of violating Article 75(1) (c) of the Constitution which states that a state officer shall behave, whether in public or official life, in private life, or in association with other persons, in a manner that dopes not demean the office. The lawmakers are further accused of violating Section 11(a) of the Integrity and Leadership Act, 2012 which states that a state officer shall carry out duties of the office in a manner that maintains confidence in the integrity of his office. “The commission would like you to respond to these allegations and record a statement regarding the same," the letter to the MCAs stated. The summons followed a visit by the commission’s detectives to City Hall after the Monday chaos. They obtained video footage of what transpired. Those summoned include Mr Guro, Minority Leader and Kileleshwa MCA Elias Otieno, Minority Whip Peter Imwatok, Waithaka MCA Anthony Kiragu who moved the impeachment motion, Ngando's Peter Wahinya and Nominated MCA Mary Njambi. Others are Leah Supuko, Doris Ngoyo, Ruth Mainigi, Nancy Maole, Grace Muthami, Susan Kavaya and Laura Mwololo. The county legislators were to report to Integrity Centre at 10am. They will record statements with EACC officers Eunice Hinga and Juliet Wanjuhi between Wednesday and Friday this week.   The lawmakers will answers questions on claims of unethical conduct.