Harambee Stars coach Sebastian Migne has outlined tough conditions he would like met to keep the team's dreams of qualifying for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) finals alive. The Frenchman, who began his competitive campaign as Kenya coach brilliantly by downing four-time African champions Ghana 1-0 in a Group “F” qualifier at Kasarani stadium on Saturday, before edging out Malawi 1-0 in a friendly on Tuesday, said little things that matter can end Stars' 14-year wait for continental action. One, he wants any player who absconds national team duty be banned by the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) and two, any player summoned with an injury must report to camp for check-up with the medical staff. Thirdly, he wants fans to embrace the team by painting the stadium red with replica jerseys for a frenzy atmosphere during home matches. “We cannot achieve anything with my president and my players alone, we need fans in red jerseys in the stadium next month and also the final home game against Sierra Leone,” said the former Congo Brazzaville coach. He added: “My focus now is on the Ethiopia games, we need to dream. We need to be organised in all departments and that’s why we’ve put in place some rules to be respected.” The 45-year-old was on Saturday frustrated in his post-match comments after the Ghana game over the absence of skipper Victor Wanyama and three other players, Gor Mahia duo Boniface Oluoch and winger George “Blackberry” Odhiambo as well as Kakamega Homeboyz striker Allan Wanga, who failed to turn up to camp despite call-ups. Migne came out to clarify his outburst. “It was not against Victor (Wanyama), he is my captain, the best player in the country and he is a good guy but it’s a different spirit I am building in my squad, it would’ve been good to come and share some feeling with the squad even if it was for two days.” He further said that he will follow the exploits of all foreign-based players in the next 30 days before the match against Ethiopia. Meanwhile, Zambia-based midfielder Anthony Akumu has hailed the French tactician’s approach. “The coach has been telling us to work as a team, play as a team and be ready to work for one another,” said Akumu, who plays for Zesco United. He added: “I think that has been a uniting and motivating factor for us, we are more compact and that has contributed to the results we have posted in the two games.”   Kenya next face Ethiopia on October 10 and 13 when the 2019 Afcon qualifiers resume.