After three decades of anxious waiting, Kisumu residents will finally have a glimpse of the legendary snake, Omieri, which has been associated with several cultural beliefs in Nyanza. The snake, which died on July 9, 1987, will be the highlight of the 3rd edition of the Kenya National Cultural Celebration for Unesco (Knatcom), which will take place in Kisumu beginning Wednesday to Sunday. HUGE CROWDS On Tuesday, a team of workers from the Nairobi National Museum, that has been the 'resting' place of the snake since it died, were busy installing a grass-thatched mud hut at the Jomo Kenyatta Sports Ground for viewing by the locals, attracting a huge crowd. Residents could not hide the joy of finally seeing the snake that they had all heard mysterious stories about, since most of them were born after the snake had died. "We hear it was the biggest snake to have ever been seen in this (western) region, I was born when it had died so I never saw it. I am happy it has been brought back home and we will see it," beamed Mr Erick Omondi, a local. An autopsy done on the reptile revealed that it had died of a gastro-intestinal tract infection. Prior to its death, National Wildlife Conservation, the now Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) did all they could in attempts to keep it alive. It is reported that in February 27, 1987, some villagers in Nyakach set fire at Omieri’s abode causing the snake severe burns, before KWS  moved to its rescue. SPECIAL CARE With the help of Kisumu National Museum, KWS immediately took the snake to Nairobi National Museum for treatment and special care then returned it  in May 21, 1987, with the hope that its condition would improve due to the warm climate in the region. At Kisumu National Museum, Omieri was occasionally fed on chicken before it developed an oral infection and was unable to feed, which saw the snake quarantined for close observation but was attacked by a fungal infection that led to mouth rot. Animal experts says that if snakes are held captive for a long time, they suffer fungal infection and many usually die of mouth rot. Dr Purity Kiora, the Director of Antiquity Sites and Monuments at the Kenya National Museums, told reporters in Kisumu that the snake might not be kept for long at the exhibitions due to complications in preserving it. "We can only have the public view it for just a short period of time because the to preserve it for people to see, it has to be in a conducive environment. It has to be in a place with little light and air tight,” said Dr Kiora. FESTIVAL She said the snake will be at the site till Sunday after which they will take it to Kisumu Museum where it will stay for about a month, then its homeland Nyakach and back to the laboratory in Nairobi. A ceremony will be held for the snake with Nyakach elders invited to tell its story. The snake measured 5.3m and weighed 58kg and was always associated with long rains in Nyanza region. Other activities at the festival themed “Enhancing National Cohesion, Identity and Pridewill” include multicultural performances from different counties, a food fair dubbed “Fish-fiesta”, performances by Benga musicians, public talks and a fashion show. There will also be excursions at Kit Mikayi shrine, weeping stone, Kisumu Museum, Got Ramogi Hills, Hippo Point, Dunga and Lwanga Beaches. Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o lauded Knatcom and the National Museums of Kenya for staging the event in the lakeside town and promised the visitors  a good time during their stay. PARTNERSHIP On her part, the Kenya National Commission for Unesco, Dr Angeline Njoka, heaped praises on Kisumu County for the great partnership towards staging of the celebration. "We are grateful to Governor Nyong'o for agreeing to host us in Kisumu, the county boasts of a rich cultural heritage that we wanted to plug into, we expect great performances,” she said.   Nyakach residents claimed its absence had brought them misfortune.