In many facets of development, the evidence is incontrovertible: technology, especially the mobile technology, is one of the strongest straws that stir development. Take for example health: mobile technology has been instrumental in reducing appalling deaths among infants and children. Health messages carried by mobile phones into the phones of parents in the disease-prone communities have been associated with increased rate of immunisation — one of the cheapest and effective ways to insulate children against debilitating diseases. In commerce, the evidence is stark; mobile money transfer is an important cog in business. ANTAGONISM Here is the point: everywhere you look you will find plenty of examples of how technology is making lasting changes in our society. One of the nettlesome issues facing Kenya is negative ethnicity, one that often rears its ugly face during the electioneering season. Tackling ethnic antagonism is the reason behind the Building Bridges initiative between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Nasa leader Raila Odinga. The initiative can tap into the power of mobile technology to reach the remotest corners of the country and deliver its messages. Here is how. Communities at the tip of the spear are often the poorest in our society. SURVIVAL They have measly income, the reason they live hand-to-mouth. They are fragile and depend on government support for survival — education, health, water and sometimes food; but they own phones. They are in millions and easily influenced by politicians to help them tip the ballot in their favour. The Building Bridges Initiative team can develop appropriate content in text, video clips or audio files to persuade people to do or act in a certain way. They should be creative with messaging in order to touch the hearts and minds of their audience. RURAL AREAS The content need to be in languages that communities, especially those in rural areas can easily understand — and charge them nothing to receive the content. The format of the content — text, video or voice — should be compatible with the low-end phones that are predominant among the rural folk. The messages should consistently expound on concrete steps the Building Bridges team is doing and the results that they are getting. That way, everyone will feel engaged and involved. Everyone will become a partner in the process, and will own the results. CHALLENGES Using mobile technology to engage communities will cascade the conversation from the top to the local settings — bars, places of worship, schools and workplaces, and hopefully start to fix the fractured fault lines of our society. Technology has the unique ability to reach people that TV and radio don’t reach. While we have unique and difficult challenges, we also have some of the effective tools in history to confront them. The writer is an informatics specialist. Email: samwambugu@gmail.com @samwambugu2  