in Johannesburg Nelson Mandela’s 100th birthday celebrations in July garnered global attention, not least because former US President Barack Obama was on hand to deliver the commemorative lecture. In the midst of the high-profile visits, Kenyans living in South Africa were marking the iconic event by engaging in various charity activities. Indeed, members of the Kenya Diaspora Association of South Africa (Kedasa) have made a name for themselves with their involvement in charity activities in their host country. “A good number of us are grateful for the opportunity to live and work in South Africa. We think it is important to recognise the opportunity,” says Mr Godfrey Kamatu, the association’s chairman. MADE DONATIONS During the Mandela centenary, the organisation made donations of foodstuff and clothing to the community of Alexandra — better known as Alex — an informal settlement in the northern suburbs of Johannesburg. Established in 2011 in Johannesburg, the idea was the brainchild of Dr Chomba Chuma, a medical doctor turned serial entrepreneur who has authored Build Legacy, Touch Freedom, a book on investing in the South African real estate sector. “From the beginning,” says Mr Kamatu, who came to South Africa in June 2003, “the intention was to create an umbrella body that would represent the interests of Kenyans”. This involved bringing together organisations like Professional Kenyan Youth, Kenya South Africa Business Association, Family Fellowship Kenya and Upendo Women’s Investment. Kedasa’s nascent steps were encouraged by former Kenyan High Commissioners to South Africa — Tom Amolo and Patrick Wamoto — who presided over something of a golden era in the diaspora-diplomatic relationship between 2011 and 2015. INFLUENTIAL MOVEMENT Current officials include deputy chairperson Judy Odero, Chesaina Rottok (secretary general), Patrick Kabuya (treasurer) and Cecilia Njenga (PR and marketing) among others. The number of long term Kenyan residents in South Africa is estimated at 40,000 and this runs into hundreds more when those who live in South Africa for lesser periods, especially for research and studies, are factored in. Mr Kamatu says the group is important to “foster unity among the diaspora” and leveraging this to build a strong and influential movement that has impact in Kenya and South Africa.  Another key objective is scouting for investment opportunities for South African firms in Kenya, a mission that has seen a number of South African companies setting base in Kenya. For instance, some Kedasa officials were involved in Volkswagen South Africa’s establishment of a production plant in Nairobi late last year. DOMESTIC MARKET “A number of South African companies are reaching maturity in the domestic market and looking north of the border for new investment opportunities. On the other hand, Kenya is looking for investment capital to boost the economy. Our role is to make these South African and Kenyan interests achieved,” says Kamatu, adding that the organisation also hosts events involving companies targeting the Kenyan diaspora. The “diasporic diplomacy” role has extended to the organisation’s civic duties as seen in the mobilisation of Kenyans to register and vote during last year’s General Election, working with the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC). There has also been lobbying on the draft diaspora voting framework.  