Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang'ata will marry the love of his life Mary Wambui on September 15. The lovebirds will tie the knot at Gathinja Catholic Church in Wangu ward, Kiharu Constituency. PRESIDENT KENYATTA Senators from across the country are expected to attend the wedding, with President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto expected to be the chief guests. The 39-year-old Senator told the Nation he would be formalising his union as he is married with three children. “I’m not a bachelor as widely perceived. I’ve been married to Ms Wambui for eight years and blessed with three children. We will just be solemnising our marriage,” he said, adding that the Deputy President has confirmed his attendance. He said nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura will be his best man while Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro will be the groomsman. WEDDING “All plans for the wedding are complete and we shall exchange our vows at Gathinja Catholic Church while the reception will be held at Thika Greens,” he said. The reception will be by invite-only. The senator disclosed that the wedding was his ailing father’s idea. “My father has been sick for a while and he requested me to do the wedding and since we all must obey our parents, I immediately started preparations,” he said. WILLIAM RUTO Mr Kang'ata’s wedding comes a few weeks after Emurua Dikirr MP Johana Ng’eno exchanged his marriage vows with his lover Nayianoi Ntutu in Narok in a wedding that brought together Opposition leader Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto. Some Kenyans perceive Mr Ng’eno’s wedding and Mr Kang'ata’s upcoming nuptials as ‘political weddings’ where the political class have an opportunity to interact and make merry. Mr Josephat Kamau, a sociologist, told the Nation just like the way women come together and plan weddings with lots of fanfare, politicians too need such activities for team building. “Most of the time, leaders interact in parliament, during fundraisers and political rallies but such social gatherings are good for team building,” he said.    “I will marry when I want,” MP, whose marital status was a source of ridicule, once said