There was drama in Eldoret after Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago intercepted a truck offloading fish imported from China on a pedestrian path in Eldoret. The governor had just driven out of town when he spotted the truck that had been parked on a foot path in Action Estate along the Eldoret-Iten highway. The governor learnt that the truck was off-loading hundreds of cartons of imported fish to a container at a garage before they could be delivered to customers. “I will not tolerate any business which might affect the operation of this county. Those in business should come for business permits,” said the Governor. INVESTIGATIONS UNDERWAY While confirming the incident, Eldoret West police boss Zachariah Bitok said that investigations were underway to establish whether the owners of the container had legal documentation for such business. “We shall use government agencies like KeBs and the Kenya Revenue Authority to ascertain if the imported fish is safe and all the procedures of importation were adhered to,” said Mr Bitok. Mr Mandago ordered the County Executive Committee Member for Environment Ms Mary Njogu to ensure that a waste management committee is established to keep residential estates clean. He added that it was a responsibility of the residents to ensure that the environment is kept clean. While thanking the stakeholders for supporting his government, Mr Mandago asked the residents to report any cases of environmental pollution to relevant bodies for action. PLANT TREES “Waziri (Mary) Njogu, ensure that we have an environment hotline number that the residents can use to report pollution of the environment,” said the governor. The governor, who asked investors to follow the laid down regulations, also called upon the county residents to continue planting more trees. Ms Njogu called upon the youths to take a leading role in conserving the environment. Earlier, the governor had warned businessmen that tough action would be taken against anybody who dumps solid waste in undesignated areas.  