Lamu County leaders have stormed out of a meeting that was to deliberate on land acquisition for the Lamu Port-South Sudan-Ethiopia Transport (Lapsset) Corridor project after disagreements arose. The meeting was attended by Petroleum Principal Secretary Andrew Kamau and brought together officials from the Lapsset Corridor Development Authority, the National Land Commission (NLC), the Ministry of Land, Ministry of Petroleum and the county government. It was taking place at the Majlis Hotel in Shella. GRIEVANCES IGNORED But the meeting ended prematurely after Governor Fahim Twaha, MPs Stanley Muthama (Lamu West), Athman Sharif (Lamu East), Lamu Woman Rep Ruweida Obbo and MCAs stormed out citing failure by the national government, through the Lapsset Corridor Development Authority and the NLC, to listen and address the grievances of the locals concerning the land acquired for the project. NLC has already allocated 70,000 acres of land to the Lapsset Corridor in Kililana and Mashunduani. The land is meant to set up the already ongoing new Lamu port as well as other projects including the Sh200 billion coal-fired power plant in Kwasasi, the Lamu-Lokichar crude oil pipeline, a railway line and other Lapsset components. But the leaders expressed disappointment over the move by the NLC to allocate a huge parcel of Lamu land to the Lapsset Corridor Development Authority without even compensating those who were settled there. Governor Twaha said they are tired of land injustices and discrimination of Lamu residents in employment at the construction phase of the port.   FRESH TALKS He asked the Lapsset board and managers, the NLC and all the stakeholders concerned to come to Lamu and hold fresh talks with locals and leaders in order to iron out differences on the land issue. “We are tired of being taken in circles. People sit in Nairobi and make decisions concerning Lamu lands thinking that we are asleep. They should know that this is our land and if they are to take those lands, due procedure must be followed. “You can’t take a whole 70,000 acres of Lamu land without even compensating the owners. Very few people were compensated and we won’t allow any land to go just like that. We will stand with our people and ensure they get justice,” said Mr Twaha. HONOUR AGREEMENT Lamu West MP Stanley Muthama accused the government of failing to honour the initial agreement that was to ensure Lamu residents are fully involved the development of the Lapsset project as well as any other project intended to be undertaken in the county. Mr Muthama also accused the NLC of duping and frustrating residents of their land in a bid to expand acreage for parcels acquired for the Lapsset project. The legislator said it is unfair and unrealistic for the government to ignore concerns that include providing a way forward on compensation for fishermen who will be locked out of their fishing zones due to the Lapsset activities. “We support all national government projects intended for our county but all in all we won’t have the government frustrate our people especially over the Lapsset and coal plant projects’ compensation. Such mega projects are in our county and our concerns must thus be taken into account. “People have had their lands secretly incorporated into the acreage for Lapsset. And no one wants to listen. If they don’t come down and deal with us, we shall make their work very difficult and unbearable here. Let them ensure justice for our poor people,” said Mr Muthama.   CASH COMPENSATION Lamu West MP Athman Sharif called on the government to ensure that any resident whose land is acquired for national government projects is compensated in cash instead of being given alternative land. “All lands are occupied in Lamu. I am shocked to hear that the government wants to compensate land for land for the Kwasasi farmers where the coal plant is intended. That can’t happen. Let the people be given monetary compensation since even land valuation was already done and people promised to be paid Sh800,000 per acre,” said Mr Sharif. Woman Rep Ruweida Obbo challenged the NLC to withdraw the title deed issued to the Lapsset Corridor Development Authority for the 70,000 acres of Lamu land. “Let the NLC withdraw the title deed for the 70,000 acres of land. We want them to come down and discuss with us on how the rest of the land will be compensated before including it as Lapsset land. Only a few people were compensated and we will accept nothing less than the lands which were paid for. If they want more land, let them pay for it,” said Mrs Obbo.   Boat owners ask government to ensure all affected boat operators are fully compensated.