The destruction of Sh1.5 billion contraband last week was a spectacle to behold. Cars, foodstuff, electronics, pharmaceuticals, alcoholic drinks, cigarettes and other items of value went up in smoke under the watchful eye of President Uhuru Kenyatta. Some people would be forgiven for thinking that it was a waste and that it would have been better to distribute the goods to those in need of them or put them up for auction and let the State take the proceeds. But that would be missing the point. First, such goods are defective and harmful. Most of the electronics are fake and could be harmful or, at the very least, useless, the food contaminated and the medicines expired and toxic. These are not items that we would like to own. That’s why they were destroyed. WARNING However, I think that the burning of these items served a much more important point. President Kenyatta’s war on corruption, however successful, is playing out away from the public. Even the high-profile arrests are fleeting images on our television screens — though they send a very important message to those in high places that they might be next and serve as a warning for anyone who might think of doing something untoward. Many of these crimes are a little bit removed from the daily lives of the average person. We see the huge amounts that were stolen but it could be that the more successful the graft war becomes, the more immune we are to the depth of the crimes. BOGUS GOODS Seeing so many goods that we use on a day-to-day basis go up in flames demonstrates that the graft war is not just about returning the billions of shillings that some bigwigs have stolen but also protecting the public. We, or our family members, could have innocently bought a car that did not go through the checks; the repercussions of a vehicle with faulty brakes or other systems are obvious. Consuming expired foods, drinks or medicine can be deadly. We could pay with our lives — literally — for having these goods on the market. While it is heartbreaking to see goods of so much value go to waste, we should not be fooled that they are what they appear to be. Sometimes a government has to save the people from themselves; however good it might seem to buy goods on the cheap that can put us in danger. SELFISHNESS The message that these goods are better destroyed than be in the marketplace is one that we should all internalise because it is tempting to think otherwise — especially if they were destroyed behind closed doors. It is important for us to see this spectacle and the President has done us a great favour in ensuring that it was witnessed and broadcast so that every Kenyan can bear witness to it. Let our anger be directed at those who abuse the system, trying to sell us cheap but faulty goods. They don’t care about us; they just want to make a quick fortune at our expense. Our government and leadership have a responsibility to save us from these people, and that is precisely what they are doing by physically destroying contraband and counterfeits. As the flames lick the roofs of those cars, blacken the foodstuffs and set alight the electronics, we should whisper a thanksgiving prayer. Ms Kaparo comments on governance issues. snlenges@gmail.com  