An advocate whose father died three years ago in mysterious circumstances has urged the High Court to order former Chief Government Pathologist Moses Njue to return her father’s heart so they can bury his body. Testifying before Justice Wilfrida Okwany Tuesday, Ms Carolyn Muumbo said the family is yet to bury the body because the cause of his death has not been established and some organs are missing. She told the court that Mr Timothy Mwandi Muumbo collapsed and died on June 22, 2015, at his home in Dik Dik Gardens in Kileleshwa. The body was taken to Lee Funeral Home for preservation and two days later, a post-mortem was conducted as Ms Muumbo and her siblings, Mr Jonston Kassim Muumbo and Mr Alex Munyasya sought to know the cause of their father's death. They had been told that the 83-year-old had died of a heart attack. FAILED TO MEET DEADLINE The family asked Dr Njue to carry out the post-mortem under the agreement that he gives them the results in two weeks. He failed to meet the deadline and they served him with a demand letter. The three later learnt that the report Dr Njue submitted was similar to another one filed by the police and another prepared by a doctor hired by the family. The three opted for a second post-mortem, this time by Prof Emily Rogena. She did not conduct it after it was discovered that vital organs, including the heart, were missing. The family moved to court to compel the pathologist to produce the organs, which he had claimed were at the Government Chemist. A statement filed in court said Dr Njue told the family that the kidney and parts of the stomach were taken to the police and that he could not account for the heart. STEALING HEART Dr Njue and his son, Mr Lemuel Anasha Mureithi, have since been charged with stealing Mr Muumbo’s heart and are out on a cash bail of Sh300,000 each. The former pathologist has filed a petition seeking to stop the trial and he is facing another charge in Meru in which another family has accused him of stealing the heart of Mr Benedict Karau. Ms Muumbo Tuesday said the family also wants Dr Njue's report deleted because it is erroneous. The hearing continues on November 28.  