National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale has denied claims that the allocations to the National Government Constituency Development Fund (NG-CDF) kitty have been affected by the austerity measures announced by President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday. In a messages directed to MPs, Mr Duale asked the legislators to disregard reports in the media on the fate of the kitty. He pleaded with the legislators to wait for Tuesday when National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi formally communicates the President's reservations to the House. “The public should disregard the reports in the media,” he said in regard to claims that the President had slashed Sh5.9 billion allocated to the kitty in the 2018/19 financial estimates. “MPs should treat these reports with a pinch of salt until Tuesday when I also submit the Supplementary Appropriation Estimates. It is not there.” FINANCE BILL In his Friday statement, the President faulted the House in the manner it enacted the Finance Bill, 2018 describing the process as “a show of good politics but demonstration of bad leadership”. “The Bill failed to conform to our national aspirations, fulfil government’s basic obligations to our people and are implementable,” President Kenyatta said during an address to the Nation from State House, Nairobi. The President asked the MPs to take a Sh18.7 cut from their budget. The two Houses, the senate and National Assembly will have Sh6 billion of their development budget taken away, as well as Sh8.7 billion that had been proposed for emergency roads in different constituencies The President also asked the MPs to reduce VAT chargeable to petroleum products to 8 per cent from 16 per cent and slashed sh9 billion of the Sh314 billion shareable revenue due to the 47 counties. OFFICIAL COMMUNICATION But Mr Duale hinted the claims on NGCDF may not be part of the memorandum the president has sent to the Speaker. “Let the MPs wait for the official communication from the speaker on Tuesday when he communicates the President’s reservations. They should be patient and treat the reports with a pinch of the salt,” he said. Jubilee party has planned a parliamentary group meeting on Tuesday where the issue of the President’s memo on the Bill will be discussed and a formal position taken. The meeting will be held at State House and will be chaired by President Kenyatta, starting 9.30am before the afternoon sitting. HEALTH LAWS Besides, the presidential memorandum, other issues the PG will most likely discuss the Health Laws (amendments) Bill which comes for debate next week, the business of the House and other legislative issues. The organ has not met since February amid claims of a fallout between allies of the President and his deputy, William Ruto. It is possible that the MPs could use the opportunity to discuss the affairs of the party and concerns the president has neglected the party since his March 9 handshake with ODM leader Raila Odinga.   The president wants the fuel tax cut from 16 per cent to 8 per cent.