Agony ate Issa Baya in his hospital bed at Coast Provincial General Hospital as he narrated how police shot him twice during a robbery at his neighbour's house. The 30-year-old caretaker told the Nation that police shot him on Tuesday morning in Kisauni, Mombasa County. CURIOUS NEIGHBOURS Mr Baya explained that he and many other people went to the scene of the robbery to follow events. He said they had heard that a strange car stopped at the nearby plot and that unknown people got out of it, stole from the house and drove away. "When we arrived at the scene, two of our neighbours were tied up with ropes. The people got scared on seeing them, so they started walking away, but my two friends and I remained at the scene." The father of three said police officers arrived later and opened fire without asking what had happened. “They told me to lie down but I crouched. One of the police officers shot me in the leg," he said. "When I looked around I could not see my friends. They had run away. I wanted to jump over a wall but they shot me in the back. I tried to move but could not due to pain." 'UNFORTUNATE' INCIDENT Mr Baya said he heard one of the officers saying he should be shot. "When they were about to shoot me, the two friends shouted that I was not a thief but a good neighbour who had gone to confirm what was happening,” The officers rushed him to the hospital. Mombasa County Commissioner Evans Achoki said they were investigating the "unfortunate" incident and that they will take action. The incident came a few weeks after an eight-year-old girl in Mombasa suffered a dislocation after she was shot in the leg by a stray bullet. She was discharged from the hospital last week. Speaking at the hospital while presenting shell casings from police shootings to IPOA officers, Haki Africa Executive Director Hussein Khalid noted that such cases are on the rise in the county. “We are disturbed by the rising cases of police shootings in Mombasa. Officers should be careful during their operations to avoid harming the innocent,” Mr Khalid said. “Everyone has a right to security. It Is sad that those supposed to take care of us are the ones harming us." He asked Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i to intervene.   Amnesty International document says by October, last year, 122 killings had been reported.