Contradictory High Court judgments have deepened the controversy surrounding compensation of victims of the 2007/8 post-election violence. The court determined in 2015 that the victims were not entitled to compensation by the government, but in June, another judgment stated that the government is liable. EAC OBLIGATIONS On June 28, judge Mbogholi Msagha held that traders who lost trucks and goods by way of arson and theft should be compensated. The ruling was on a case filed by Ugandan and Rwandan transporters whose trucks and goods were destroyed on their way from Kenya at the time of the violence. They had blamed the Commissioner of Police for failure to provide adequate security. The judge noted that Kenya is a member of the East African Community and that Article 89 (f) of the Treaty for the Establishment of The East African Community obligates member states to facilitate and promote the movement of traffic within the community. “An obligation was therefore placed on the Kenyan government to provide security as provided under that Treaty.  The destruction of the plaintiffs’ properties within its jurisdiction pointed to lack of or inadequate security required,” the justice said. EVIDENCE Mr Msagha pointed out, however, that given that it has been about 10 years since the chaos, long distance haulage of goods faces strain in terms of wear and tear and that accidents are bound to occur. “Considering the nature of their business but with little evidence to guide the court, I consider it fair and just to assign 15 percent loss of business per truck per annum for a period of six years based on the value of each truck to cater for loss of business,” justice Msagha. On April 24, 2015, High Court judges Isaac Lenaola, Mumbi Ngugi and Cecilia Githua did not find police responsible for the protection of victims of post-election violence in Eldoret, Uasin Gishu county. They concluded that they were not entitled to compensation, noting there was no evidence that police had prior information of the attacks for it to be said that they breached their duty to protect the petitioners. “In the petition before us, we are unable to see how police could have foreseen the occurrence of post-election violence within the petitioners’ neighbourhood and its magnitude, for them to take measures to counteract it, if no prior information had been availed to them, especially given the spontaneity and scope of the violence." The judges added that they were in agreement that the government has a general duty to investigate human rights violations. In this case, they noted, it had been demonstrated that it investigated the violence and took action in the form of arresting and prosecuting persons suspected to have participated in it, although other cases were still under investigation. DISMISSAL The state counsel had stated that some persons had been charged, and that there had been 258 convictions and 87 acquittals, while 138 cases had been withdrawn and 50 cases were pending. The petitioners did not challenge this. The court said: “For all the foregoing reasons, we are inclined to find that the petitioners have failed to demonstrate that the state, in this case, negligently or deliberately failed to protect them and their property from violence which led to destruction of their property." The judges further said that the petitioners had regrettably failed to prove that the government was liable for their losses. "Painful as that decision may be", the said, "we have no choice but to dismiss all the three petitions.”   Businessmen from Uganda, Rwanda seek millions in compensation for the losses they suffered.