The hunt for points in the 2018 Kenya Amateur Golf Championship (KAGC) series resumes this weekend with the 54-hole Kabete Open at the par 72 Vet Lab Sports Club course. Coming barely a week after the Uganda Open Amateur Championship in Entebbe, Uganda where Kenya’s Edwin Mudanyi of Vet Lab and Limuru’s John Karichu tied for the second place on two over par 286, this year’s Kabete Open has attracted a small field of 47 players. Unless other players enter through post entries, this will be the smallest field to have ever participated in the Kabete Open since it was started some five years ago. Being at home and with the Uganda Open experience still fresh, Mudanyi, is likely to start as the hot favourite with a strong challenge likely to come from some of his club-mates such as Mike Kisia, Robinson Owiti, Isaac Makokha, and Isaiah Otuke among others. Also going for the KAGC points and the World Amateur Rankings will be Limuru’s Paul Muchangi, Simon Njogu of the Great Rift Valley Resort in Naivasha and Railway’s Samuel Njoroge and George Felix. The opening round is set for Saturday 7am followed by the second round in the afternoon while the third and final round will take place on Sunday. Action at Vet Lab will, however, start with Friday's Shangilia Childrens Home charity tournament which has attracted a big field of 220 players. Event organizer Mary Karano is still accepting more players this being a fund raising event. Entry fee per player is Sh2,500 which may be paid before teeing off. Karano thanked all the sponsors in this year’s tournament saying their contributions will help the home realize its target of raising Sh500,000 from the event. Meanwhile, some of the country’s leading lady golfers are away in Nakuru this weekend, for the Nakuru Ladies Open at Nakuru Golf Club. The two day event starts with the Njoro Ladies Invitation at Njoro Country Club in the Nakuru County on Friday where the ladies will be joined by the men drawn from Njoro, Nakuru, and Kericho. Action will then switch to the par 73 Nakuru Golf Club course on Saturday for the 18-hole stableford event where the ladies will also be joined by the men. The main 18-hole medal event, which counts towards the ladies Golfer of The Year (Goty) series, is set for Sunday morning where Kitale-based Naomi Wafula will be attempting for a back-to-back victory following her recent win in the Kenya Open Ladies Amateur Matchplay championship. To take her on, will be Royal Nairobi’s Serah Khanyereri, Ashley Awuor from Golf Park, Eldoret’s Esther Chumo and home player Esther Karuga among others. Back in Nairobi, action will be at Royal Nairobi Golf Club’s par 72 course where a big field of over 200 was drawn for the Sunset Golf Society tournament sponsored by Tysons Limited, VIP Hotel, Liberty Insurance, Kceders Restaurant,Vivo Energy, Safari Park Hotel, and Eng. Carey Orege. Sunset captain Hesbon Odumbe said some fabulous prizes will be at stake besides the usual entertainment.   The top four are likely to join professionals in the main Uganda Open on Wednesday.