Kenya’s history is replete with instances of very public political “redemptions” in which erstwhile “bad boys” are turned into creatures whiter than snow. The scenario is very familiar to most of us. A Kenyan steals huge amounts of money or commits a particularly egregious crime, but due to the checks and balances put in place, he is caught and publicly humiliated. There is a public outcry and hullabaloo, and calls for him to be appropriately punished, and this dominates the headlines for a while. However, the matter is soon enough tied up in the courts and our collective attention shifts to other more exciting happenings around us. After a short while, or sooner if there is a political contest on the horizon, the thief resurfaces in a religious setting, and a religious leader welcomes him to the pulpit to address the flock. BRIBING LEADERS Sometimes the religious leaders will “anoint” or “baptise” the thief and declare him “delivered” from his previous iniquities. Unfortunately, the “deliverance” does not include restitution of the stolen wealth, except for relatively modest donations to the religious leader or his establishment. The congregation cheers the conversion of Saul to Paul, and the new Paul becomes a darling of the people to the extent that they get him elected to represent or lead them. Quite obviously the thief achieves “redemption” by effectively bribing the religious establishment to cleanse him in public and make him acceptable in the eyes of the public without serious personal sacrifice or pain. Other clever Kenyans, understanding that this is another potential path to wealth, abandon all pretence at honest work and begin what they call “hustling” in the truest sense of the word. They are constantly engaged in “looking for deals” that will guarantee their ascent into the ranks of the monied Kenyans. SUPPORTERS They know that should they be caught, the path to redemption remains open, and the likelihood of being punished for their crimes is next to zero. In any case, they are able to pay their way to their own version of justice, which includes the belated “deliverance” and the subsequent stardom that leads to exulted political office – the Kenyan Dream. These musings were triggered by a picture doing rounds on the internet of a politician accused of heinous crimes kneeling piously before a religious figure who appeared to be performing a “blessing” ritual of some sort. The next thing we knew he was all over the media seeking absolution, with a pack of supporters taking over the battle for his cleansing and redemption. It should not surprise anyone that if an election were called for higher office than he already holds, the politician would trump his nearest rival without breaking a sweat. It should be obvious that this politician is neither the first nor the last Kenyan to walk this path. The Kenyan Dream remains alive and well for the foreseeable future. Lukoye Atwoli is Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Dean, Moi University School of Medicine. lukoye@gmail.com  