Kariobangi Sharks booked a slot in the final of the SportPesa Shield with a 4-1 hiding of Ulinzi Stars in a lopsided semi-final played at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani on Sunday. A brace from Eric Kapaito and a goal apiece from Duke Abuya and Shaphan Oyugi saw Ulinzi bow out of the domestic cup at the hands of a side they knocked out with a similar score line at the same stage in the 2016 edition. Cliff Kasuti scored a late consolation for the soldiers. Harrison Mwendwa beat his marker George Omondi for pace six minutes into the game, danced into the six yard box before sending a cross that was headed in by Duke Abuya from close range to open the scoring. Ten minutes later, the former Mathare United winger showed quick feet again leaving Omondi for dead on the right, delivered another teasing cross that was parried by Ulinzi custodian Timothy Odhiambo into the path of Shaphan Oyugi who buried home the rebound.   Eric Kapaito made matters worse for the men in red with a third goal on 20 minutes before completing his brace three minutes after restart. He would’ve netted a hat-trick but was denied by the crossbar in the 72nd minute. Ulinzi coach Dunstan Nyaudo, devastated on the touchline, was forced to cut short makeshift right back George Omondi’s dreadful afternoon by replacing him with Abdallah Hamisi in the 21st minute. \The reorganization bore Ulinzi’s first attempt at goal at the hour mark through Daniel Waweru whose attempted shot from 20 yards went inches wide.   Nyaudo introduced Masita Masuta for Boniface Andai on 34 minutes as he sought a way back into the game. The substitutions changed the tempo for the remaining 10 minutes with the soldiers having a sniff at goal before referee Peter Waweru called for the break. Sharks coach William Muluya made sure he protected his lead by throwing in utility defender Michael Bodo and the industrious Vincent Wasambo in the final quarter of the second half. Sharks, who will be playing in the final for the second year in a row, will meet the winner between Sofapaka and AFC Leopards in this year's final. The second semi-final will be played today afternoon at the same venue.   It has been yet another lukewarm season for Ingwe.