If there was any movie that was worth waiting eight years for, it is Deadpool. I am thankful that Ryan Reynolds was born on this earth for the sole purpose of bringing me such joyful, exuberant, prolific and profane happiness. And this is the reason I was more than ready to wait for the second Deadpool movie as well. If you haven't watched it by now, well, seriously, this is truly all on you. You can't wait for 16 months to watch a movie and then be mad that there are spoilers (this is for you people who watched the Matrix in 2017). If you know, you know. MOST ANTICIPATED MOVIE For me, this was one of 2018's most anticipated movies, simply because in a world full of sequels and reboots, we might as well get another Deadpool movie so that all can be truly right with the world. Of course, not just because of that, but also because Deadpool is such an excellent anti-hero to Black Panther's perfection or Superman's "superness", it's a refreshing change to have a fallible, selfish drama queen at the centre of saving whatever it is that needs to be saved. Deadpool picks up near where the last movie left off – Deadpool has figured out how to get the dame, and they're trying to be happy, still going to the same bars and still having the simultaneously grossest and sweetest inside couple jokes possible. The movie quickly switches from romance to drama when Deadpool is put on a quest he isn't willing to go on by a force he doesn't necessarily understand the concept of to help someone he's never met. OLD FRIENDS On the way, he crosses paths with old friends who help him find his way and finish the job (I'm talking about the comedic genius of the guy from Silicon Valley – who, by the way, is just as funny in Ready Player One) – but there's a lot more for this merc to lose by the time the movie is done. Yes, I am being deliberately cryptic, but there's only so much you can say without spoiling everything (what kind of girl do you think I am, surely? Yes. Yes, I am that kind of girl). If you loved the first one, you'll love the second one. Maybe love it less, because only in the history of Shrek, Lord of the Rings and a paltry other few has the sequel been better than the first movie. But you're here for the jokes, pop culture references, breaking the fourth wall and sheer ridiculousness that is my favourite X-rated Marvel character, yes? Yes. And that's what you'll get. (Plus, a blistering soundtrack. Gotta love it.)    'The Meg' is an adaptation of Steve Alten's Meg: A Novel of Deep Terror (1997) .