Baringo Senator Gideon Moi on Saturday sought to consolidate his support ahead of the 2022 General Election. Senator Moi, who is also the Kanu chairman, met Njuri Ncheke (Meru elders) in Nakuru as the politics of succession continues to gather momentum. The meeting, held at former President Daniel Moi’s Press Secretary Mr Lee Njiru’s home, discussed various issues regarding the country’s leadership. Led by their supreme council chairman James Merianga, Njuri Ncheke members welcomed the Baringo Senator to Mount Kenya region and promised to support him. According to Mr Merianga, former President Daniel arap Moi had worked closely with the community, and appointed their sons to senior government positions. STRONG FRIENDSHIP “As a council, we cannot forget how Mzee Moi was generous to our community and that is why we decided to pass by in our tour of the Rift Valley. We also needed to assure him of our support should he require it," said Mr Merianga. Mr Moi said he was ready to work with the elders, whom he said, played a major role in the development in the country. The senator observed that the Meru community had supported his father’s leadership and created a strong friendship. He said he would work to strengthen the relationship between the community and his father. RESPECT “I understand the immense respect that the Njuri Ncheke commands in the community and that is why I have always wanted to meet you and see how we can establish a working relationship with the community,” said Mr Moi. The Baringo Senator said he would soon visit the region and have a candid talk about the 2022 presidential race. In the recent past, Senator Moi, who has declared interest to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022, has been meeting various leaders across the country. COMMITTED PUBLIC SERVANT The visit by the elders has come barely a week after Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho’s visit where the two leaders agreed to work together. Mr Moi praised Mr Njiru for serving his father with dedication. He described Mr Njiru as a loyal and committed public servant. “Mr Njiru served my father with dedication to an extent that many people assumed he was a member of my family,” said Mr Moi.   Some Coast leaders were hoping to benefit from their allegiance to the President, DP