The electoral commission on Tuesday called on investigative agencies in the country to conclusively probe the validity of Garissa Governor Ali Korane’s academic papers. This comes after lawyer Charles Kanjama claimed that a second fraudulent file on the governor's nomination documents had been sneaked into the electoral agency after the commencement of investigations. Mr Kanjama is representing former Garissa Finance Executive Idriss Mukhtar, who was reportedly planning to challenge the authenticity of the governor's academic papers, before he was shot and injured in Nairobi. PROBE The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) chairman Wafula Chebukati, in a statement issued Tuesday, asked the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions, Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and Directorate of Criminal investigations to comprehensively interrogate the matter and ensure that anyone found culpable is duly punished as prescribed by law. Mr Chebukati also called on Mr Kanjama and any other person with any information that may implicate fraud or alteration of documents by any staff at the electoral agency to report the same and help with investigations. Mr Chebukati explained that Mr Korane was cleared to vie on the basis of the nomination documents he presented before the IEBC County Returning Officer (CRO) which includes a duly filled self-declaration form. He said that the copies of the forms were forwarded to the EACC on February 15, 2018 after the commission requested for them in a letter dated February 5, 2018. The electoral body’s chairman further stated that the IEBC also received further requests by the EACC for the original documents that Mr Korane submitted during nomination in the General Elections of 2013 and 2017 via letters dated February 26, 2018 and August 9, 2018. “The Commission gave EACC certified copies of the requested nomination documents for both 4th March, 2013 and 8th August, 2017 General Elections (vide a letter dated 9th August, 2018) but invited the EACC investigators to visit IEBC to verify the same with the original documents,” he said. Mr Chebukati, however, cautioned against unfounded statements that are not justifiable and prejudicial to the investigations. Governor Korane recently hit the headlines after it emerged that he is under investigations in connection with the attempted murder of Mr Mukhtar. On Sunday, the governor told journalists that he does not hold a master’s degree and has at no time declared the same to any state agency.   Mr Duale will battle it out with former Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly Farah Maalim.