Deputy President William Ruto has shielded the Jubilee administration against claims that it has plunged the country into an economic crisis, in wake of a new levy on petroleum products. Mr Ruto said Jubilee's development record speaks for itself. "Let them respect what we have done over the last five years and the fact that we know where this country is heading," he said during a fundraiser at Gikondi Catholic Church in Mukurwe-ini, Nyeri County, on Sunday. He also dismissed complaints that the recently enforced 16 percent levy on petroleum products was as a result of the administration's corrupt deals. LOANS Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung’wa told off leaders criticising the national government's huge appetite for loans. "The borrowing rate will be deliberated by respective leaders in different parliamentary groups so as to chart a way forward on the economic progression of the country," he said at the event. This comes a day after a section of opposition leaders cautioned against excessive borrowing, which they argued would be detrimental to the country's long term plans. For instance, Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi said the fuel levy is a measure the State is applying to repay funds pilfered by corrupt public servants. "It has been proved that the higher the taxes, the higher the propensity to evade them. It is even worse when Kenyans are being taxed so heavily to pay for corruption," he said last week. FUEL TAX National Treasury and National Assembly leaders have planned discussions on how best to handle issues surrounding the new levy, which has elicited sharp reactions among ordinary wananchi. Kieni MP Kanini Kega said: "As leaders we will need to sit down with the President and his Deputy and chart a way forward regarding the fuel issue because everyone is affected." Also, Nyeri Woman Representative Rahab Mukami called for the reduction of the tax to ease the cost of living. Mr Ruto announced that the government will be constructing 750 kilometers of road in Nyeri County worth Sh25 billion to facilitate transportation of farm products. EDUCATION Further, he said Sh200 million has been set aside for the expansion of Mukurwe-ini Technical Training Institute in a bid to increase student enrolment. "As a government we have resolved that all students in technical institutes will be placed on a Sh30,000 bursary funding to relieve parents the burden," he said, adding that all students in vocational training institutions would benefit from a Sh40,000 stipend from the High Education Loans Board. Other leaders present were MPs Alice Wahome (Kandara), Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), James Gichuhi (Tetu), Gichuki Mugambi (Othaya), and senators Ephraim Maina (Nyeri) and Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet).   Global Financial Integrity said Kenya is the easiest place in the world to open a shell company.