MPs have summoned the Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet over the increased number of road crashes in the country in the last few months. Members of the Transport, Public Works and Housing Committee of the National Assembly also want the director general of Kenya National Highways Authority (KeNHA), Peter Mundinia, to appear before the team and explain what the agency has done to remedy the situation. Committee chairman David Pkosing (MP Pokot South) said that majority of the crashes were avoidable and wondered why the relevant government agencies like KeNHA, traffic police department and the National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA) are employing little effort. “The inspector-general of police and the director- general at KeNHA should come here and tell us why this is happening,” Mr Pkosing said faulting the creation of the traffic commandant, who has no command over traffic officers other than collecting data. The summoning of the heads of the two government institutions that are critical in ensuring road safety comes hot on the heels of an audit undertaken by the committee, which showed that at least 507 Kenyans have died in traffic related incidents and thousands others were injured during the months of July and August. The summoning also came after Mwingi Central MP Gideon Mulyungi complained of complacency among the KeNHA officials, a trend he said is worrying to the safety of road users. “There is a time I took KeNHA officers to Mwingi to identify the black spots and ensure that proper road signage is done as well as putting up speed humps, signage and guard rails among others. They did nothing and two months later, there was a road crash in one of the areas I had identified with them,” Mr Mulyungi said of the accident that left 10 school children dead in August this year. The MP said that he has also spoken to the KeNHA boss several times but nothing seems to be moving and that the only thing that was done after the horror crash was to install roadway rumble strips which other than warning motorists, does not control the speed. “The other areas remain unattended to, not forgetting the many bridges that have no guard rails,” the MP said. According to experts, the effectiveness of roadway strips is not as well established as shoulder rumble strips. KeNHA has the responsibility of managing, developing, rehabilitating and maintaining the international trunk roads linking international boundaries. In January, President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered NTSA officers be withdrawn from Kenyan roads to pave the way for the traffic police officers.   Police, NTSA and KeNHA identify 15 blackspots where death is a slip away.