I feel like I’ve stepped into a hidden, magical world on the heights of the Aberdares. We’re entering the northern part of the range that, until recently, was shrouded in mist and only accessible to tough hikers and mountaineers. Newly graded earth roads weave their way through sky-rocketing cedar trees richly laden with lush green moss and trailing wisps of lichens. All is quiet. We clamber up a wooden platform built around the girth of an ancient tree at a lodge in the area. Suddenly, the sound of breaking branches reaches our ears. We peer through the trees and spot the unmistakable white tusks of an elephant. The bull elephant steps out of the forest and heads to a huge salt puddle as we watch from the platform. He’s draws in the salt crust, whips up some dirt with his trunk and splashes around. When play time’s over, he ambles back into the forest and vanishes. Meanwhile, the colobus monkeys have rented the air with their loud calls but do not reveal themselves.   Our attention is diverted by a soaring raptor that lands in a tree by the glade. It’s an Ayer’s hawk-eagle, a bird that’s not easy to see except in old forests like the Aberdares. SHOW STOPPERS We proceed to drive along the ridge of the northern Aberdares. The forest gives way to the moorland flowers towards the top. These flowers are the show stoppers. At 10,000 feet in the cold air, we stop to gape at them bursting from the thick tussock grasses. There are red hot pokers and orange gladiolus; everlasting flowers in pink; carpets of yellow sunbursts, and helichrysums, geraniums and giant groundsels. It’s a flower wonderland. The iconic Twin Peaks overlooked by the Dragon’s Teeth break through the flat moorland. They are volcanic – the Aberdares are the eastern wall of the Great Rift Valley. Only serious hikers attempt those granite peaks. They require a serious level of fitness and a guide to lead you to them. It’s a practice ground for climbers to Batian, Mount Kenya’s highest peak, at 17,057 feet The road along the ridge goes through gentle slopes and finally we’re on the descent where glades of beautiful rosewood tree or otherwise called Hagenia burst into view. They are all in flower – showy bouquets of florets in pink. In a word - enticing. On an epic climb to Satima a few years ago, a pair of bongo – one of Africa’s rarest antelopes with ivory-tipped horns, had dashed across the road. We scan the forest of cedars and podos that give way to the bamboo, looking for the bongos. At this point a lone leopard startles us and just as suddenly, steals away into the dense undergrowth not to be seen again. The bongos don’t appear but the bamboo gives away to the lush grasslands where herds of buffaloes and mountain zebras graze away. The Aberdares are an escape into surrealist nature.  www.rupitheafricantrotter.wordpress.com  