Stanbic Mwamba crushed Menengai Cream Homeboyz 17-0 to lift the 2018 Dala Sevens title, the fifth leg of the National Sevens Circuit, in a tense final played at the Mamboleo Showgrounds in Kisumu on Sunday. It was also a good revenge for Mwamba who had lost to Homeboyz at the Prinsloo and Sepetuka Sevens finals 19-12 and 25-0 respectively. More so, it was Mwamba’s first victory this season, having reached the final four times. They had lost to Nakuru in sudden death 12-7 at Driftwood Sevens final. It was a painful loss for Homeboyz, who had hoped make history as the first team to lift the cup in three consecutive years now. However, the Deejays, who have won three events this season including Kabeberi Sevens, upheld their top spot in the Stanbic National Sevens Series standings with a total of 100 points, as Mwamba consolidated their second place with 92 points. The Series end this weekend with Christie Sevens at the RFUEA grounds. In the final, Mwamba took the lead after two minutes when Daniel Taabu broke deep inside the pitch, to touch down easily. He failed to stretch his sides lead after he missed the conversion. Homeboyz would have respond three minutes later but Oscar Ayodi wasted the opportunity and both teams went for the break with Mwamba leading 5-0. Homeboyz had to stand their ground in the early minutes of second half to avoid conceding another try as Mwamba pinned them in their area, looking to extend their lead. Their hard-fought efforts bore fruit in the 13th minute when international Collins Injera raced past the try-line, but missed the conversion to lead 12-0. Homeboyz's fate was perhaps sealed when Mark Wandeto was sin-binned before Mwamba skipper Jack Eliakim dashed through for a try that was converted try to win. To reach the final, Mwamba thrashed Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) 20-7, while Homeboyz fought hard to see-off Resolution Impala Saracens 19-12. Mwamba coach Kevin Wambua said the victory was a great relief having reaching finals thrice without winning. Wambua attributed his side's victory to good preparation. "I am very proud of the boys because they have been resilient despite losing in the finals thrice. Its good to break Homeboyz dominance," said Wambua. Impala Saracens pulled a huge surprise when they beat KCB 12-7 to finish third. Alfred Orege’s unconverted try in the sudden death gave Mean Machine a slim 19-14 victory over Menengai Oilers in Challenge Trophy final. The two sides had tied 14-14 in regulation time. Driftwood champions Nakuru’s hopes of narrowing the gap at the top suffered a blow when they lost 12-24 to Mwamba in the quarterfinals. Nondescripts also complicated matters for the 'Wanyore' winning 24-12 in the fifth place semi-finals, leaving them to finish a disappointing seventh.  