AFC Leopards seem to have developed some phobia; especially when meeting Gor Mahia in the resent past! There is simply no motivation among players in the team as it used to be. In years gone by, preparation for matches used to be something of an army preparing for war, especially in matches involving Gor Mahia, the three weeks leading to the match involved so much by way of preparations, but the current Ingwe squad has no winning culture. I am heartbroken to see the club losing matches every other week. The 2-1 loss to Wazito in the Kenyan Premier League on Wednesday at Machakos was sad to say the least, coming hot on the heels of Leopards’ loss to Gor Mahia in ‘‘Mashemeji derby’ a week ago. But the loss to Gor was particularly painful because we handed Gor Mahia the three points that gifted Gor Mahia the Kenyan Premier League title. The team went on to lose to Wazito FC, but reacted in good fashion by beating Kenya Police in SportPesa Shield match played on Saturday at Bukhungu Stadium, AFC Leopards winning 4-1. SportPesa Shield remains the only realistic tournament AFC Leopards can win, and we must channel our energies in the tournament to ensure we play in the African Confederation Cup next year. This is why we need a winning strategy as a matter of urgency. Club officials must create an environment of trust; putting in mind that building a team culture is part of any successful strategy. Ingwe seriously need officials with enough experience. Sorry to say, the current office does not seem to be doing enough. Ambrose Rachier had the same feeling at Gor Mahia that’s why he instilled the same in his management. At the Den, the leadership must build a winning culture that promises sustained success to convince the fans to stick with the players throughout the season. A team with long and sustained culture of success is characterised by high level of motivation that establishes a sense of expectation. In establishing the team’s winning culture, communication is key. Those in office must make team goals understandable and create an atmosphere that welcomes feedback at every level. The players must know that, through their good performance, they will attract fans to the stadium, and they must take their role seriously. The technical bench, too, needs to stay focused. A team culture includes a set of collective goals that lay the foundation for success. Ingwe must establish values and a culture for fans to identify with. Club officials must be reliable and have the interest of the players at heart. They must be open and accept new ideas from all members of the club. If fans are allowed to contribute ideas, they will feel part of the team. This strategy will also help everyone feel part of the bigger group, and people will be free to contribute ideas, especially if they are implemented. After a culture of success has bee successfully established, we can charge forward as a united club. At the moment, what we have is an indifferent office and a disjointed playing unit with players who seem not to clearly understand why they are in the club in the first place. All is not lost. We must pick up the pieces and show that we are stronger in such challenging times. I believe the current challenges have the potential of bringing the best from the club as a whole. Together we will succeed.  