It is all systems go for the long awaited 2018 CBA Africa Concours d’Elegance at the Nairobi Racecourse on Sunday from 9am. The star-studded field of 70 cars and a strong contingent of motorcycles including two bikes entered by the Vintage Motorcycle Club of South Africa under the sponsorship of the Galleria Shopping Mall are a threat to the cream of Kenyan motorcycle restorers. Johannesburg-based Martin Kaiser, who is making his second appearance at the Nairobi Racecourse, has placed his hopes on a rare 1964 AJS Café Racer. He will contest in the motorcycle class against Peter Giraudo’s 1965 Triumph TR6C. The favourite for outright victory is the ancient Triumph of Dominique Antoine, which was made in 1925. He is an aircraft engineer and is noted for meticulous preparation. Chris Eden, the Chief Car Judge and Robert Gow, who is in charge of the assessment of motorcycles stressed that the increasingly high standard of preparation by competitors necessitated comparable attention to detail by judges to detect minor flaws. In a close fought contest small defects may make the difference between overall victory and the runner up position. There are eight cars made before 1940 and the winner may well come from this group. Last year’s class winner was John Wroe’s 1934 Rolls Royce Boatail, which has been improved for assessment on Sunday. He has also specially built a 1930 Ford Model pick-up entered by Joseph Kamau which will be well worth watching. The Alfa Romeo Owners Club recommends competitors, officials and spectators to use the Southern By-pass to avoid anticipated traffic on Ngong Road. The gates will open to the public from 9am and the programme for the day includes a spectacular free-fall parachute drop at approximately 2:30 p.m. and, throughout the day, spectators will be able to divide their time between watching the judging of the classic and vintage cars and motorcycles and visiting Auto Expo (the motor trade section) and the Heritage Collection. This comprises displays of historic vehicles, old machinery and equipment. There will be an ancient Ferguson tractor, a 1918 steam engine and a hand operated petrol pump kindly loaned by Total Kenya Limited. In keeping with the Heritage Collection sub theme of “The past, the present and the future” an old Mercedes lorry will be flanked by the latest Actros truck. In close proximity will be an electric powered car made by pupils of St Andrew’s School. After judging there will be a grand parade of all the Concours cars and motorcycles which will precede the podium prize giving in front of the main stand. Following the presentation of awards spectators will be treated to a grand finale.  