Vihiga United shocked Gor Mahia 2-0 in a SportPesa Premier League match at the Mumias Complex on Wednesday. The result was enough to pull the hosts clear of the relegation zone and they are now almost assured of a place in the top-flight next season. They are now 37 points, five ahead of 16th placed Chemelil Sugar who visit already relegated Thika United Thursday afternoon. Goals in each half from left winger Amos Kigadi and forward Stephen Wakanya were enough to hand K’Ogalo their fourth defeat of the season Gor Mahia coach Dylan Kerr brushed aside reporters who wanted to interview him after the match. “Go away! What do you want?", yelled Kerr, who looked agitated as he slowly followed his players to their bus. Vihiga United tactician Mike Mururi said they only require a draw in Sunday's match against Kariobangi Sharks at the same venue to avoid the chop. “I honestly thank the players for putting up a brave show. They were focused throughout the match which eventually brought us the victory,” he said. Gor Mahia started off brightly with strikers Bernard Ondiek, Jacques Tuyisenge and Boniface Omondi proving to be a menace to their opponents' defence led by Bernard Ochieng. The hosts took time to settle as and it came as a surprise when Chris Masinza put though Kigadi, who rounded up defender Shakava to hit the top of the net for the opening goal in the 32nd minute. Champions Gor went in search of an equaliser and Tuyisenge came agonisingly close after hitting the cross bar on the stroke of half time. After the breather, Vihiga proved stronger than their opponents, who found the going tough in rain soaked field that made their movement difficult, in the encounter that was watched by a capacity crowd. A lapse in the Gor defence cost them dearly and Wakanya capitalised to power home the second goal in the 64th minute. Whistler Hosea Omondi was forced to flash a yellow card to Vihiga goalkeeper Geoffrey Oputi, who held the ball, rolled it, before picking it again   Victory for Tusker takes their points tally to 50.