When this school term started, and all the female teachers who had been on maternity leave resumed, I was very confident that we would do well in the KCPE exam this year; for unlike last year, we now had enough teachers to help prepare the students. It also meant that, for other classes, we could complete the syllabus. So when the term started, I prepared a new school timetable. Ideally, the timetable should be prepared by Kuya, the Academic Master, but you all know Kuya: you cannot trust him with such a serious responsibility. The last time he did the timetable, he had favoured some teachers, particularly his girlfriend Nzomo; when he only assigned her mid-morning classes. A task force we formed revealed that two other teachers had bribed him to get favourable timings. “Dre will be making the school timetable going forward,” directed Bensouda, our female headmaster. With all teachers back and with only one teacher — Lena — having shown me a letter from the doctor advising on the time she could make it to school and what time she must leave, I went ahead and did the timetable. As expected, Madam Ruth and Mrs Atika complained, saying they were just from maternity leave and could not be expected to be in school very early — or leave late. This despite the fact that it’s over seven months since they both returned from maternity leave. At the beginning of the term, we had all committed to improve KCPE exam performance this year and reluctantly, teachers accepted to give the candidates an extra three KCPE exam revision lessons: in the morning, after lunch and in the evening. TEAM EFFORT We agreed that all teachers, even those not teaching class eight, would be involved. While early morning was the best time when everybody’s mind was fresh, most teachers declined this. Many also declined evening preps. Only Kuya and I took morning cases, with the majority selecting lunchtime preps. Other than preps, other classes went well. I had challenged two teachers, Mrs Atika and Sella, who were not coming for their classes on time. And of course, Saphire. But isn’t it rather obvious that he will appear in week four? Towards the end of the first week, when I allowed the mothers to come with their babies to school; they had no major complaints about the timetable, and where they had, they successfully managed to exchange with their colleagues smoothly. Trouble started after Bensouda closed the Baby Day Care Centre. The first two days, most of them came to school late. This was regrettable but manageable. We had survived without them; how could we not survive with just a few of them coming late? But things got worse last week. On Sunday I received an SMS from Kuya. “Dre, our house girl has just run away. Nzomo may not make it tomorrow, as we try to sort this out.” I responded and told him that was OK, that I considered family first. About an hour later, I got another SMS from Sella. She was also reporting that she would not be available the next day, giving the same reason of the house girl not being around. “I will come if she will have arrived by tomorrow morning.” I also gave her permission to be away. When I arrived at school the next morning, Madam Ruth, who was supposed to be on duty, was not in. On picking my phone to call her, I saw an SMS from her: “Dre, please be on duty for me, my house girl has just left this morning. Thank you.” We now had three teachers away — all attributed to house girl problems. By 9am, Mrs Atika and Lena had not arrived, nor had they communicated. My calls to both of them went unanswered. When she called back later, Lena said that she had sent Erick to tell me that she won’t make it, as she had fired her house girl and was looking for another. LESSON LEARNED Something told me this was deliberate — four teachers cannot be away over the same reason. I decided to investigate. After tea break, I left for Milimani, Mwisho wa Lami’s leafy side where Nzomo, Madam Ruth and Sella stayed. The first house I stopped at was Sella’s. After knocking several times, a young girl opened the door. She was carrying a baby on her back, and when I asked here where Madam was, she said Madam had left an hour earlier. “Angalia kwa Mwalimu Nzomo,” she said. I needed no calculator to know she was the house girl. Next I went to Kuya’s place. Kuya — together with Nzomo — stays in my former Milimani house. No one responded when I knocked, so I went behind the house. To my surprise, under a tree behind the house, I saw Madam Ruth, Sella and Nzomo seated, talking leisurely. A few metres away was a girl I considered to be Nzomo’s house help, washing utensils — a baby tied on her back. I had not even said a word when I heard Nzomo say: “Sadam, Osama, Sah, Mwizi!.” I immediately heard two fierce dogs bark, and they started running towards me. I shouted in shock to repulse them but they seemed unafraid and charged ferociously. I have never run like I did that day. Luckily I knew my way around Milimani. I jumped over a fence, into a black-jack infested maize plantation, crossed into Madam Ruth’s compound from behind, and out through the gate, fast as a cheetah. After some time, I realised that no dog was chasing me. I was sweating profusely as I slowed down and started walking. I thought of going home, but how could I explain to Fiolina where I was from? I walked to school, and noted everyone was looking at me. I assumed it was because there was blackjack all over my blue Kaunda suit. As I entered the staffroom, Kuya seemed amused to see me. He was actually laughing. “Eish! Dre!, kwani kuna shida gani, nini imerarua longi?” That is when I realised that my trousers were torn, something that must have happened when I crossed the fence. I went to my office and locked myself in — and left very late, after all students, teachers and workers had left. I will never again go to teachers’ homes to snoop on them. Never!   Last year, almost all female teachers in Mwisho wa Lami went for maternity leave