The government has outlined its efforts in bid to exploit the blue economy through huge infrastructural projects. The projects worth billions of shillings are being implemented through various departments and parastatals. With the Special Economic Zones Authority working on the multi-billon industrial park to be constructed at Dongo Kundu, Kenya Ports Authority is also positioning itself to be the giant port in Africa. Top on its priorities is the Sh120 billion expansion program and modernisation initiatives aimed at improving efficiency and wad off competition from the neighbouring Dar-es-Salaam Port in Tanzania. KPA has engaged in ambitious expansion meant to cushion its position as the region's biggest port facility. FIGHT COMPETITION In an exclusive interview with the Nation at his office, KPA managing director Daniel Manduku said the organisation is strategically putting itself together to fight competition from the Dar es salaam Port. Currently KPA is undertaking the construction of the Sh20 billion Shimoni port, the Sh40 billion new Kipevu Oil terminal, the construction of the Sh30 billion second container terminal at the Port of Mombasa and the construction of the Sh30 billion Dongo Kundu free trade port. He said that KPA targets to remain atop of other neighbouring countries even as reports abound that importers from Rwanda, Uganda and Burundi and other great lakes region countries are slowly shifting to the Port of Dar es Salaam. BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES "Everyone looks for good business opportunities and we know that the Rwandan market is growing. Since we are aware of that, then we have played a role in making sure that we support the Rwanda business market, " said Dr Manduku. He said KPA is Ware that Tanzania is an alternative corridor for importers in the great lakes region. "Of course being in the East African region and being alive to the fact that we have alternative corridor puts us in an awkward position because now we must constantly be ahead of the game, and that is what we are currently doing. We realised that for us to remain competitive, we needed to expand our physical facilities, " said Dr Manduku. SHIMONI PORT He said the construction of the Shimoni Port along the Kenya/Tanzania border is awaiting the public partnership approval. The fishing port of Shimoni is one of the 11 small facilities, KPA wants to develop countrywide in a multi-billion shillings programme. Dr Manduku said the construction of Shimoni Port will be through the Public Private Partnership. Cabinet Secretary James Macharia recently said the government was keen on exploitation of the blue economy with emphasis on sustainable economic growth and achievement of her blueprint for national development, Vision 2030. “The blue economy can play a major role in Africa’s structural transformation, sustainable economic progress, and social development. But these resources are vastly untapped,” Mr Macharia said.   The first steps have been taken to build the Sh40 billion Dongo Kundu bypass at the Coast with eviction notices issued to land owners along the road.