If you want to guess what’s going to happen next, it can be helpful to know what has gone before. And that principle certainly applies to the car industry. Here’s a reminder of what the decades have wrought: The 1880s: the first inklings and experiments with an idea called “internal combustion”, where fuel was burnt inside an engine to harness its explosive power, as opposed to “external combustion” where the fuel was burned somewhere else in a boiler, to make steam pressure which was piped to push moving parts. The 1890s: finding ways to put the new (smaller, lighter) engine idea on wheels to create a form of power-assisted transport that was slower than a man on foot, less reliable than a bicycle, and as wayward, noisy, smelly and hard to keep as a horse. The 1900s: the substantive arrival of contraptions called motor carriages (“cars”) which could keep up with bicycles, with controls that would eventually start them, sometimes stop them, and steer them with the precision of a boat in stormy weather. Hence the invention of the “car accident”. The 1910s: mass production, affordability, and enough performance to make cars the fastest form of land transport not dependent on railway lines and which did not get tired. The invention of motorsport. The concept of “reliability” with a score of more than zero, and a World War that put guns on some and wings on others. The 1920s: Form caught up with function and added luxury and prestige, plus middle class versions that were both affordable and reliable. A huge increase in makes and production volumes. Many more roads … and racetracks. Motoring became “normal” and “universal”. The 1930s: The Great Depression brought thrifty “people’s cars”. They got fast enough for designers to consider aerodynamics and “teardrop” shapes. The 1940s: Another World War halted civilian production but drove military technology that gave the following peacetime an explosion of better engines, utility vehicle designs (no-frills pickups, 4WDs) and ways make economical cars in huge numbers. The 1950s: a post-war boom that brought aerospace shapes and chrome decoration with sometimes absurd results, and prioritised unprecedented speed, luxury and power. Era inspired everything from ship-sized limousines, soul-stirring sports cars to the bubble car. The 1960s: The “anything goes” era that spawned a galaxy of all-time greats — like the E-Type and the Mini. The priority was diversity … and excitement. The 1970s: The morning after — the fuel crisis, congestion, but also turbochargers, easy driveability, seat belts and airbags. The 1980s: Japan’s influence made cars get safer, better equipped and more practical. The 1990s: Japan’s example and pressure championed quality control, and brought safety, luxury, performance, and unprecedented reliability and driveability to even low-cost models. The 2000s: Computers, crossovers, carbon fibre, hybrids, hyper congestion. Now: Internal combustion unsustainable. Self-driving unnecessary and unfun. Next: The bicycle?   Driving is no longer a pleasure; in heavy traffic it is a penance.