A new date’s always exciting — but if the relationship doesn’t quickly settle into a pretty nice groove, then there’s little chance things will improve. So you need to decide whether you’re compatible as soon as you can, or really you’re just wasting your time. After your first few dates you should be feeling really relaxed and comfortable around one another. You don’t? Move on. You should also find each other’s lips irresistible, adore each other’s smell, and just can’t stop touching one another. You don’t? Move on. Because when it comes to love, these are the things that will really make you happy for the rest of your life. But maybe your date only calls once a week? Or you go for an occasional dinner, but somehow they’re always too busy to really spend time together. Move on … Nobody’s committed to begin with. You’ll both cheerfully chat up someone else if they happen by. But after a month or so you should both start wanting your relationship to be exclusive. So say so. Out loud. It’s almost always the woman who has to start the conversation, but you should both be equally willing to commit! While you’re at it, discuss what “exclusive” means. What about flirty texts? Or is it cheating only if it’s physical? Agree a definition that works for both of you. But if your date still feels it’s OK to chase after other people once you’ve discussed being exclusive, then you two are probably not going to be together in the long-term. SPEND TIME TOGETHER And if one of you does actually cheat as this stage? Then what chance do you have in 10 years’ time? Dating couples are usually on their best behaviour. So once you start feeling exclusive about one another, you also need to start spending time together just being yourselves. Every day. Your schedule always seems too busy? Well, if you can’t find time for each other now, how do you think things will be later? Just being yourselves together all about finding whether you’re really compatible. Away from the artificial politeness of a formal date. You need to know what you’re both like around the house. Tidy or disorganised, for example. Regularly cook and clean up together. Because tasks like that show how well you work together as a couple. Only one of you is willing to do the housework? Move on. Welcome disagreements, because they show how you both handle conflict. Does your partner argue well? Or disappear every time things get rough? Fights usually bring out the worst in people. So it’s better to know what that’s like earlier rather than later. Because love’s about the real world. It’s not just a feeling. It’s about give-and-take, working together, enjoying each other’s company and being able to trust and depend on one another. Find all that out soon. And then decide quickly. So you’re not wasting your time on someone who’ll eventually let you down.  nyumbayangu@me.com   Start seriously working at being the best in what you do and soon you will be passionate.