In his nine career marathons so far, former world record holder Wilson Kipsang has dipped under two hours, five minutes eight times. This includes the then world record 2:03.23 at the 2013 Berlin Marathon, which he followed up with his current personal best time of 2:03:13 for a second-place, again, at Berlin three years later. And in 10 days’ time, Kipsang, 36, will be attacking the Berlin course, saying he’s chasing a personal best time. This could only mean that he has Volare Sport team-mate Dennis Kimetto’s world record (2:02:57) in his sights. And with the fastest (non-official) marathon runner Eliud Kipchoge on the start list on September 16, Kipsang hopes to cross the Brandenburg Gate finish in record time. Former Seoul Marathon champion Amos Kipruto and Eritrea’s half marathon legend Zersenay Tadese will also be in the mix next weekend. Kimetto’s record was also set in the Berlin Marathon in 2014 and the flat course offered by race director Mark Milde should lure an interesting time should the weather hold. “I have done my training well and I’m looking forward to a good run. I thank God it has been an injury-free training although there has been lots of rain but that didn’t stop me from achieving my dream,” said Kipsang after training on Wednesday. The Iten-based athlete told Nation Sport that he has good pacemakers to boot. “I have very good pacemakers and I will be looking forward to a good run and my target is to be on the podium as the winner. I will not be looking at who’s in the race, but I will be able to use my training skills to be on the podium.” Kipsang is also favoured by the fact that he has run in Berlin several times and knows the course pretty well. “Berlin is a fast course and that is why I was able to break the world record in 2013. I know the course very well and I want to repeat by lowering the mark once again.” Kipsang spoke outside the AIC Mindililwo Church where he normally attends service before he leaves for any race. “AIC Mindililwo is my local church and I normally get prayers from the members and the leadership before I leave for any race abroad,” he said. Kipsang pulled out of last year’s Berlin edition won by Kipchoge after falling ill at the 31-kilometre mark. He was propelled to register for the New York Marathon where he emerged second behind Geoffrey Kamworor. In February this year, he lined up for the Tokyo Marathon but also pulled out after suffering stomach problems that lasted for two days. The other top contender, Eliud Kipchoge, has unquestionably proved the world’s pre-eminent marathon runner of his or perhaps any generation, and the 33-year-old aims to build further on his incredible record of nine wins from 10 career marathons as he seeks to defend his Berlin Marathon crown. Kipchoge will be joined in the German capital city by his NN Running Team colleague Abera Kuma of Ethiopia. The 27-year-old Ethiopian raced to a personal best of 2:05:50 for second in April’s Marathon Rotterdam and he will be hoping to make his mark at the sharp-end of the field.  