Team Kenya bagged a total of 39 medals to retain the Mombasa Open Tong-IL Moo-DO International Martial Arts Championship crown as the championship ended at Aga Khan Academy on Sunday night. Team Kenya, under the guidance of head coach Ibrahim Mchumba, won 14 gold, 13 silver and 12 bronze medals to win the sixth edition of the annual championship held in Mombasa. For the better part of the first and second days of the championship, the Team Kenya trailed the Philippines, who had commanded an early lead. But as the championship progressed, the home team put up great show to win more medals to eventually carry the day. Kenya’s main challengers, the Philippines Republic, finished second having collected seven gold medals, while Nigeria took third place, having got two gold medals, three silver and one bronze. Cote d‘Ivoire finished fourth with one gold medal, one silver and two bronze. Zambia emerged fifth with two silver medals and Thailand took sixth position with one silver and four bronze medals. Ethiopia, who took a silver medal in the two-day championship, was placed seventh. Japan and Tanzania failed to get a medal. Meanwhile, the government through the Chief Administrative Secretary in the Ministry of Sports and Heritage Noor Hassan Noor has pledged to support the Kenya Tong-IL Moo-Do Federation with Sh 5 million towards the organisation of next year’s event. Noor, who was the chief guest at the finals, said the sports ministry is in consultation with the ministry of Education to have the sport integrated in the education curriculum at primary and secondary school levels of education. “We will join hands with the ministry of education to streamline the sport so that it is integrated into the curriculum at the primary and secondary schools games,” said Noor. World Tong IL-Moo Do Federation president Dr Joon Ho Seuk who attended the championship said he is happy with the growth of the sport in Kenya. He honoured Noor and Chief Executive Officer Sports Academy Gordon Oluoch with honorary black belts for their contribution towards the sport.  