Over 1,000 participants have registered for the fifth edition of the Chemususu Dam Half Marathon set for Saturday in Eldama Ravine, Baringo County. The event that seeks to raise Sh 20 million for conservation and community projects yesterday received a total of Sh 5 million from several sponsors including Rift Valley Water Services Board, who donated Sh 1.5 million. Local Organising Committee (LOC) chairman Josphat Kigen disclosed that defending champions Barnabas Kosgei and Priscillah Kipruto are among those who have registered for the event that will also feature 10km and 6km cross country races. Also in the mix is the 2016 Paris Marathon champion Visiline Jepkesho, who finished second last year but is out to halt Kipruto’s dream for a double. Entry fee is Sh 1,000 and registration closes at 6.30am on Saturday. The half marathon race will start at Maji Mazuri before heading to Eldama Ravine and culminating at Metipso Primary School. The distance from Maji Mazuri to the town is 10km with the rest of the distance to Metipso covering 11km. Kigen disclosed during this year’s launch at a Nairobi Hotel, that they raised Sh 6 million from last year's event with close to Sh 4 million going direct to Uzalendo School where 171 less privileged students have benefited. The launch was attended by Eldama Ravine member of Parliament Moses Lessonet, Rift Valley Water Services Board chief executive officer Hosea Wendot and Athletics Kenya Baringo County chairman Barnaba Kitilit among other dignitaries. Among the nine corporates that handed in their sponsorship packages were Kenya Rural Road Authorities (Sh 750,000), Karen Roses and Equity Bank, who gave Sh 500,000 each. National Hospital Insurance Fund, Teachers Service Commission and Kenya Commercial Bank  gave  Sh 250,000 each while New KCC and Tourism Regulatory Authority donated Sh 200,000 and Sh 100,000 respectively. Wendot said that with the first phase having completed the construction of the Chemususu Dam 10 years ago, they embarked on the second phase that seeks to supply clean water to Eldama Ravine town and neighbouring communities. “We are now putting up a plant that will be able to generate over 30,000 cubic metres of litres,” said Wendot adding that other areas outside the county with adverse water challenges will also benefit from the project.  