It's coach Paul Ogai who finally had the last laugh in the lakeside derby after Western Stima beat Kisumu All-Stars 1-0 in an entertaining National Super League match at Moi Stadium in Kisumu on Saturday. It was a sweet win for Ogai over his former boss Nick Aketch after the first leg encounter ended in a barren draw. Ogai was the then All-Stars assistant coach, while Stima was headed by Ugandan Richard Makumbi. Ogai seeks to lead Stima back to the SportPesa Premier League after he took over the leadership of the club a month ago, while Aketch is looking to help debutantes All-Stars remain in the second tier division. James Ogada's 44th minute goal made the difference in the much anticipated encounter which attracted a huge crowd. Coach Ogai said that the pressure to reclaim top spot in the league saw them fight hard to bag maximum points from encounter. "We expected a tough match being that this was a derby and considering that we were looking to go top the league, we were going to fight out best. The win is good for us as the league is very competitive," a delighted Ogai said. His counterpart Aketch blamed his side's loss to missed opportunities in the first half. "We could have sealed the win in the first half had we capitalised on our early chances, we played so well in the first half, but luck was not on our side." As expected, the match begun on a high note with both sides making an attempt at goal in the first two minutes. The host made the first attack after Victor Oduor released a long drive from the right that All-Stars goalkeeper Robert Ouma easily dealt with. Seth Owuor thought he had fired All-stars ahead in the seventh minute, but his cool finish was cancelled out for offside, before he missed another glorious opportunity less than a minute later after Leon Doso had played him in a few meters from the box. After withering their opponent's onslaught, Stima managed to make a break on the left flank through Maurice Ojwang, who sent the ball to Dan Otieno to release Johana Mwita, but goalkeeper Ouma was brilliant, as he blocked the shot and a rebound from the latter with his legs. A clever back pass from Doso in the 25th minute to Elvis Owili impressed fans, but they lost the ball and conceded a foul a few minutes later and Mwita stepped up to take it, but he was not clinical with his taking, as Ouma again denied the host from close range a few minutes later. In the last 10 minutes, the power men played with urgency as they went in search of the breakthrough. But they finally bowed down to pressure from Stima one minute to the break, when an unmarked Ogada found the back of the net from close range after he was set by Kevin Akongo from the left flank. Coach Aketch made a double substitution at interval, bringing in Gerishon Arabe and Antony Kamay for Doso and Owuor respectively. The hosts picked from where they left in the first half as they took the game to their opponent's half, but they missed two chances to increase their lead. Ogai's first substitution came in the 56th minute as Victor Oduor was brought in for Junior Mukisa, before Kevine Ochieng replaced Dan Otieno in the 65th minute. Substitute Mukisa was lucky not to have scored an own goal in the 70th minute after Ian Motanda sent in a dangerous free-kick after being fouled near the danger area, on the left. Kevin Okoth was disappointing with his 78th minute free-kick at the edge of the box after he fired right into the waiting hands of Ouma at goal, as Stima held on to the slim to to bag maximum points which sees them restore their lead atop the log on 61 points, three ahead of Nairobi Stima.  