Q How do I best address my concern for unconscious biasness that comes from my boss? I mean, there are certain things that he does such as criticise my perspectives without necessarily understanding where I am coming from. I am not opposed to being shot down or anything like that, my only concern is that sometimes his decisions come from personal biases as opposed to a place of intellect. This may impede my ability to grow because then, I also tend to see his perspectives through his biases.  Whereas a good boss-subordinate relationship is based on mutual respect and trust, a smart manager works harder to enhance these behaviours by creating the right environment for teams to thrive. Respect does not mean that all ideas and suggestions are accepted, but rather there is openness to encourage other peoples’ views without bias, keeping discussions at a professional level. But since our perspectives are largely influenced by our knowledge and beliefs, organisations tend to have an objective framework on idea generation and decision making process to minimise subjectivity which may arise. Your boss need not agree on every idea and perspective presented by his team but since he is held to account on all aspects of work under his jurisdiction, he is bound to make decisions that though you may not agree with; you will have to respect. This is not about imposing decisions through authority, but a fair boss should as much as possible explain the rationale of their decision to create buy in. Criticism in not always bad, in fact it is an invitation for you to explain your thoughts and ideas a little more in detail to defend your position. It is also an opportunity for you to listen to other views, reflect and question further, calling out any biases that maybe influencing everyone’s views including yours. Take time to reflect on how you communicate your ideas. I have seen good ideas get brushed off because of the way they are presented. Before you conclude that there is bias, be sure you are not at fault in the way you are communicating. When you know you have given your best and are not making any headway, be bold and ask for specific reasons why your idea is not good, why it will not work, how you can improve to make it work in future. Your boss is expected to be more knowledgeable and strategic and asking these questions gives him an opportunity to mentor and coach you, an important role in your career. I am glad you recognise the influence his biased perspective is likely to have on your view of his decisions whether justified or not and the affect this is likely to have on your professional relationship. You may agree to disagree in a respectable way.  *** Do you have a question? Send it to our team: mynetwork@ke.nationmedia.com   The minimum redundancy package is two weeks’ salary for every completed year of service.