Kitale Golf Club’s Naomi Wafula shook off a knee injury to clinch the Kenya Ladies Amateur Matchplay Championship title at Limuru Country Club on Sunday. Wafula, who won the Ladies Coast Open last month, got a bye in the first round and proceeded to the quarter final where she beat Muthaiga’s Christina Andersen 8-6 before sending home Karen’s Louisa Gitau with a 4-3 victory. Her toughest match was however in the final where she met her former colleague in the Rose Naliaka Academy Serah Khanyereri. The two engaged in a neck to neck battle up to the 17th where Wafula overpowered Khanyereri who was the defending champion with a 3-1 margin. “It was a tough match, I thank the God so much for giving me the strength and all the glory goes to Him’’ said Wafula. At the turn, the two leading female golfers in the country were all square and three under par. It was however at the 10th where Wafula went up when Khanyereri hit her driver way right. Wafula went three up after a par and a birdie at the 11th and 12th. They halved the 13th, 14th and 15th to go dommie three. RECOVERED Khanyereri recovered one with a birdie at the 16th, but bogeyed the 17th where Wafula parred, to claim a 3-1 victory. “At some point I had to play without shoes because of painful blisters on my feet. I was wearing new shoes which I was not so much used to them," she added. She thanked her sponsors Ravine Sports Management, courtesy of Reuben Murage, for giving her great support. Khanyereri on the other hand, beat Sigona’s Rachna Patel at the 19th before winning with a similar margin against Ashley Awuor of Golf Park in the semi- finals. Earlier Patel had beaten Mercy Nyanchama and Agnes Nyakio won against Mercy Wambugu. Awuor had posted 5-3 victory against S.G. Mundia, and Louisa Gitau had beaten Limuru’s Mwongeli Nzioka 6-4 with Christina Andersen having beaten Nakuru’s Esther Karuga 2-1. Winning the Silver Division championship was Rose Mambo who beat Florence Gitau 2-1 in the final match having beaten Frankie Gichuru 7-5 in the semis where Gitau won 1 up against P. Ndolo. Round up of weekend results At Thika Greens; Brinks Security Golf Day; Overall winners; Julius Gichimu/Paul Nugi 66 nett, cb Ndiga Kithae/Jamleck Kamau 66, Jane Gikonyo/Tonny Kwalanda 67. Gross Winners- Joseph Maina/Charles Hinga 74, J.N.Thiga/J.Thiga 75 At Kericho; Pan Africa  Equipment/FMD East Africa Golf Day; Overall Winner- Janet Ruto 44 points, Men Winner- Fidel Wasike 39, V Maiyo 38, Lady- L. Kipngok 38, H. Koech 37, Guest- S.K. Chepkwony 38, E. Barno 38, Guest Winner- Lady- E. Wambui 38, L. Mukuru 29, At Karen: September Monthly Mug sponsored by Johnnie Walker; Gross winner- Paul Kaguamba 79 gross. Div A- Tom Mulwa 71 nett, Mark Williams 72. Div B  Kyalo Nzioki 70 nett, Ian Kanja 73, Div C- Patrick Rono 41 pts, Njee Muturi 40,  Senior Winner- Peter Kamau 38 pts.  