Newcomer Steve Koigi over the weekend emerged the overall winner in the second leg of the CIC Insurance Golf series, after beating a field of 230 golfers at Limuru Country Club course. Playing handicap 29, Koigi, posted an amazing 46 points made up of 21 in the first nine and an impressive at the back nine. “Everything just worked perfectly for me though I must say, my team-mates played a big role as they kept encouraging me," said Koigi, who with the new handicap of 29 introduced recently, needed only four pars and a birdie for his magnificent score. Taking the men’s title also with an impressive score of 40 points was Mark Misumi, who beat Jackson Wachira by a point, as Wambui Gitonga on 41 clinched the ladies first prize by one point from Rhoda Mwebesa. In the guest category, Royal Nairobi’s Francis Nzwili, made only two pars and a birdie in the first nine for 21, then fired four over 24 points on the back nine, which also included a birdie at the 10th. The nines went to Peter Mwai on 23 points and Nick Nganga on 21 points, winning in default as John Karichu, who had beaten Nganga on countback, was not present during the prize giving ceremony. The third leg of the series will take place at the par 73 Nakuru Golf Club course this coming weekend. Speaking during the prize giving ceremony, CIC Group’s Managing Director (General Insurance) Elijah Wachira, thanked Limuru members for supporting the company by using its various products which he said are the best in the market. At the Swiss International Golf Resort-Mount Kenya’s “Swing to uplift’’ Charity Golf tournament, Eldoret-based golfer Gilbert Chebii playing off handicap 16, carded 39 points to claim the first prize ahead of men winner Nyeri’s long hitting Dan Weru, who carded 37 points. Nanyuki Sports Club’s Richard Kabugi was second on 34 points. Lady golfer, Florence Riungu picked the ladies prize on 31 points, beating Nyeri Golf Club lady captain Jennifer Kariuki by five points. Representing golfers drawn from the clergy, Catholic priest and prolific golfer Fr. Nick Kiboi from Nyahururu Golf Club won on 29 points. Kenya’s leading virtual Golf Club Detour Golf, which had a good representation at the tournament, saw it's fast rising player Eric Muriithi pick the Detour prize on 30 points. At Vet Lab Sports Club; James Ndiritu combined 21 and 20 for 41 points to claim the overall title in the Supergolf tournament, where Kepha Bosire posted 25 and 16 to claim the men’s first prize, beaten by Ndiritu on countback. Lucas Musembi on 40 was second, while Birju Shah and Eddy Mogoa took the second and third prize on 39 and 38 points. Mary Karano recovering from injury, carded 38 points playing off handicap eight, to take home the ladies first prize ahead of Rose Mwarania on 37 points. Jennifer Karingu was third on 36, and leading the sponsors was Joe Kimani on 35 after a countback with Lawrence Kinyanjui. Nicholas Koigi was third on 34, one better than Ken Mariga, with Kamlesh Shah emerging the best among the seniors on 37. The guest winner was A. Hakeem on 36, one better than Henry Njoroge, while the junior winner was Steve Orinda on 34 as Watson Burugu took the gross with a score of three over par 75. The following are summarised results of the weekend golf round-up; At Thika; Ladies Medal –Spetember Pendant- Winner-Silver Betty Mutua 70 nett, Judy Waihenya 72, Mary Wainaina 83. Bronze- Naomi Kimata 64 nett, Agnes Kuria 70, Mumbi Njuguna 73. Men winner- Francis Kiragu 67, cb Harun Mbugua 67, Robert Kibisu 69. At Sigoma; Thames Electrical/Mug; Overall winner- Ritesh K Shah 41pts; Jaini Shah 40, Flavian Mwangi 39; lady winner Celina Patel 34s; junior winner Parth Savani 37; guest winner Raju Mangat 36; Nines; Kuldip Devgun 22pts; Nagib Popat 22pts.  