You all know my two friends, Kizito; both of them teachers. The first one is the deputy of the nearby primary school, whom we always meet at Hitler’s every so often. Unlike me, Kizito never drinks on credit nor does he buy a drink for anyone, and that’s why we only meet at Hitler’s during end month. But today I am talking about another Kizito, a senior teacher at St Theresa’s Girls Secondary School — which is not far from Mwisho wa Lami. I first met Kizito in 2011 when I was at St Theresa’s for my Teaching Practice. He was Head of Languages, and we hit it off immediately — he trusted me so much that he frequently sent me to his classes — at a small fee. Kizito is a successful business man and respected farmer, with a good car. Besides a big shop at the county HQs, his farm is known in the entire county, and people visit it to learn modern farming methods. A few weeks ago, we met at a funeral. “You need to come for a state visit at my place,” he said after we exchanged pleasantries. I promised to see him before the end of the year. “Come with your family,” he said. Fiolina was very excited when I told her, and kept pushing me to make the visit happen. We agreed to go there last Saturday, a date Kizito accepted. “Saturday is good, please come and leave on Sunday.” “Let’s spend there,” said Fiolina. “We have lots to learn from him, especially now that we have a business.” Honda, the daughter of Fiolina’s brother, was around and would take care of the baby. Dressed in our best, we left last Saturday morning for Kizito’s place. We had hired a boda boda. Sofia, Kizito’s wife, was waiting for us. “Where are the children?” she asked as she ushered us into their magnificent house. We promised to bring them next time. FRESH JUICE We were served juice and biscuits, the sweetest juice I have ever taken. “This is fresh juice,” she said, “We make it ourselves from the fruits we grow,” she said when I praised it — which was my way of justifying why I was taking a third glass. “You can’t take three glasses of juice,” Fiolina admonished me as soon as Sofia left us in the sitting room. “Bad manners.” Sofia emerged shortly after, accompanied by Kizito himself, who greeted us heartily. Kizito was dressed in a brown suit. For about an hour, we talked about our families, work and business. “God has been good to us and we thank Him,” said Sofia. As we talked, workers were setting up the table for lunch. It was the most sumptuous lunch ever, and it was served like they do in big hotels: in three sets of soup, food and fruits; and lots of cutlery. You need no calculator to know that I wasted no time with soup, I went for direct injection. After lunch, Kizito and Sofia took us on a tour of their large farm. “I hope you learn something here,” Kizito said as he showed us chicken, dairy cattle, rabbits and dogs. He also showed us his bananas, tomatoes, avocados, maize, and nappier grass. “We have a good market but it’s not enough,” Sofia said. “So when Mzee heard that you had opened a shop, we thought maybe we could supply some of the things for you to sell for us.” I agreed. Time was moving fast and before we knew it, it was 4pm. ADVICE We slowly walked back to the house to find tea and groundnuts set on the table. We leisurely took this after which Kizito and I entered his car and left for the shop, leaving Fiolina with Sofia. Kizito’s shop was big and successful, and he shared with me the best practices for running a business. “Record keeping is the most important part of any business,” he said. “Also, have measures to ensure workers do not steal from you.” On our way back, we agreed that I would visit him again to learn more. I told him the challenges I had with raising capital, and he immediately agreed to loan me Sh20,000 to start me off. This despite the fact that I owe him Sh5,000. It was 7pm when we arrived back, and he showed me the room to go to. “Go freshen up and come for dinner.” We showered, changed and joined them for dinner. It was another feast, followed by drinks. There were several drinks available, including my favourite — The Famous Greese! As we drank, we talked a lot about our families and business, and agreed that we would also host Kizito and his wife at our home; and that we would have an exchange programme for our children. “I am sure, with your help, Mwisho wa Lami will be a great market for our farm produce,” said Kizito. It was very late when we retired to bed. For obvious reasons, Fiolina and I woke up late the next day. Very late. We joined our hosts for breakfast. After this, we posed for photos outside Kizito’s house to mark the occasion. Kizito’s pickup was parked outside, full of things. “I am going somewhere but my driver will take you home,” he said, pointing at the pickup. “We have given you a few gifts that we hope you will like,” said Sofia. They ushered us into the vehicle, and we left. They waved at us until we could not see them. On the pickup were bananas, sweet potatoes, arrow roots, oranges, cabbage, and milk, among others. We had been given enough to last us a month. Fiolina gave the driver a chicken and various traditional vegetables to take back to our hosts. As we arranged the gifts in the house, we were very happy, and could not wait to be invited for another state visit by one of our bilateral friends. Who will invite us next?   With all the children and teachers at home, business was good. We started with Milimani.