A combined Blue Bulls and TUKS side from South Africa is among three foreign teams set to feature in the Christie Sevens, the final leg of Stanbic Bank National Sevens Series, due this weekend at the RFUEA Grounds, Nairobi. Also expected are Emerging Cranes Sevens and Pirates from Uganda, who have already been pooled alongside Kenyan clubs. Pirates have been handed top seed Mwamba, who are fresh from winning Dala Sevens last weekend, in Pool “A”. The pool also has Christie Sevens defending champions Kabras Sugar and the University of Nairobi Mean Machine. Blue Bulls and TUKS will take on Series leaders Homeboyz and Nakuru, who are the only sides to have won events this season, in Pool “B”. The group also has Menengai Oilers. Homeboyz, who top the Series standings with 100 points, are chasing their fourth win this season, having bagged Prinsloo, Sepetuka and Kabeberi Sevens. They finished fourth at Driftwood and second at Dala Sevens. Emerging Cranes face Impala Saracens, hosts Kenya Harlequin and Northern Suburbs in Pool “C” while Kenya Commercial Bank, Nondescripts, Kisii and Strathmore Leos make up Pool “D”. It was also a good outing and revenge for Mwamba who beat Homeboyz 17-0 to lift Dala Sevens title. Mwamba had lost to Homeboyz at the Prinsloo and Sepetuka Sevens finals 19-12 and 25-0 respectively. More so, it was Mwamba’s first victory this season, having reached the final four times. They had lost to Nakuru in sudden death 12-7 at Driftwood Sevens final. The battle for the Series title is definitely going down to the wire with Homeboyz and Mwamba firmly in contention. The victory in Dala saw Mwamba consolidate second place with 92 points and must now win Christie Sevens if they hope to claim the Series title. That is possible only if Homeboyz finishes outside the top four position, which is unlikely based on how Homeboyz have been performing. Homeboyz coach Paul “Pau” Murunga admitted that they faltered at Driftwood and Dala Sevens but their target is to win Christies. “We are going for nothing short of victory…let others make their calculations but our focus is victory,” said Murunga, who will make one change bringing back Jeff Oluoch for injured Mark Wandetto. Mwamba head coach Kevin “Bling” Wambua believes there is still a chance to reclaim the Series title they last won in 2011. “It’s possible because Homeboyz can falter at the Cup quarters,” said Wambua adding that they have a few areas to work on ahead of the final leg. “We need to polish on our set play and decision making. Our defence was super and that is what delivered Dala Sevens victory.   It was Kulabu's first cup title of the season after losing in two past finals.