Several schools were deserted as warring communities in Narok South started counting losses following clashes that have left at least three people dead. Victims of the violence took stock on Tuesday, with many having to build their houses from scratch as they were torched in a week of violence between the Kipisigis and Maasai. SCHOOLS DESERTED Eight Secondary Schools and nine primary schools remained closed while others registered low teacher and pupil numbers despite the return of calm. They kept off for fear of attacks as some were caught in previous attacks. The number of pupils who have stayed at home is estimated to be 5,000. The most affected institutions are Enakishomi, Triangle, Olkaria, Osongoroi, Olorwasi, Ololopangi, Olarakwei, Nkoben, Osotwa, Endebes, Olmosokwa,  Oleseishwa, Olmekenyu, Esimendwa, Oleretwet, Tirita, Ololaiiserr, Entere and Nadupa primary schools. Only 12 learners were at Oloolaiser, which has a population of 429. On Monday, teachers said that only six pupils had reported. Only one class eight pupils went to school out of the 18 who are to write the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education exminations. Five out of the 12 teachers at the school had not reported to work. Class one and Early Childhood Development education centers were empty. NATIONAL EXAMS There was nobody at the neighbouring Esemeendwa Primary School whose gates were closed. The case was the same at Ololoipangi, Torokiat, Olshapwn, Olorwasi, Nderen, and Nadupoi primary schools . The affected secondary schools include Enekishomi, OleNkapune Ololoipangi, Oltarakwai, Nkareta, Olpukoti, Olmekenyu and Melelo. "Most secondary school teachers have fled as they fear being attacked. We fear performance in national examinations will be negatively impacted, " said Mr Charles Ngeno, of the Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers (KUPPET). “We fear candidates may not turn up to write the exams in the affected zones if the prevailing situation is not arrested urgently." Many parents said they lost their personal effects, including their children's learning materials, when their houses were torched.   LEFT WITH NOTHING Mr Otuma ole Maren said when fighting began in his Ololoipangi village, he lost all his household goods - property worth Sh300,000. “We were left with nothing and have moved from what we called home to the houses of relatives and well-wishers," said Mr Maren. Mr Makiroi ole Salankat asked the government and Kenya Red Cross Society to intervene. “Everything was burned down; we have nothing left. Even livestock were driven away and crops in our granaries destroyed or stolen,” said the father of nine. At Kapsimba village, Mr Joel Kirui said his family of seven had been sleeping outside and that the cold had left some of the them ill. Mr Kirui added that he lost more than Sh400,000 in the clashes. NO TREATMENT Mr Joseph Tuwei, another resident of Kapisimba village, said all his household goods and documents, including a land title deed, were destroyed when his two houses were burnt down. "I lost five heads of cattle and two donkeys to the attackers" said Mr Tuwei. Mr Livingstone Korir said he could not access the health centre in Ololunga, which is 40 kilometres away. It is the only one in the area. "We fear we may be attacked on the way therefore we are still suffering," said Mr Korir. Mrs Alice Mutai, a resident of Ololoipangi, said her children were living with relatives in neighbouring villages which were not affected by the clashes. "School uniforms were burnt down alongside books yet some of them are preparing for KCPE," he said.   Two communities clash after a cattle rustling incident.