A section of Rift Valley leaders want Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina and Narok North Member of Parliament (MP) Moitalel ole Kenta summoned over Narok and Nakuru county clashes. Senators Aaron Cheruiyot (Kericho), his Nandi counterpart Samson Cherargei and Nandi Governor Stephen Sang said the leaders should be questioned over the clashes that have been reported in the South Rift. NCIC'S ROLE "Do we still have the National Commission on Integration and Cohesion (NCIC)? If we did, the senator would have been arrested over his recent utterances. The director of criminal investigations (DCI) should summon the two leaders to record statements on their utterances because they have a case to answer," the Kericho senator said. On Thursday, the NCIC warned Ole Kina against issuing remarks bordering on incitement. In a statement issued in Nakuru town, the commission said his utterances on Tuesday were aimed at inciting communities in the clash-torn region. "It has come to the attention of the commission that Mr Ledama ole Kina uttered words that are likely to affect harmonious and peaceful coexistence among communities living around the Mau complex," said the statement signed by the commission's Secretary, Mr Hassan Mohammed. While quoting the utterances by the senator, the NCIC said the words had the potential to cause ethnic hatred between the communities. NOTICE TO COMMISSIONER Mr Cheruiyot accused Narok County Commissioner George Natembeya of taking sides in the conflict. "We are also putting the county commissioner on notice. The president should tell us if he is still a government official," he said. “Recently, he roughed up youths from one community and took them to court. Why target one community yet they fought against another community?" Last week, Mr Natembeya reported the arrest of nine people, whom he said will help police with investigations. The commissioner said police have established that people resisting phase two of Mau Forest evictions were behind the funding of the clashes in Narok South and Narok North sub-counties. Senator Cherargei said the NCIC, the DCI and the Director of public prosecutions (DPP) should take action against the leaders if Kenyans are to have to faith in the institutions. "Is Mr Francis ole Kaparo in this country? If he is, he must tell us why Ole Kina has not been arrested. Mr Ole Kina must be arrested and charged," he said. "ETHNIC CLEANSING" Governor Sang put on the spot the Interior ministry's Chief Administrative Secretary Patrick ole Ntutu, Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko and Mr Kaparo. "One community is directing its rage and anger at one community. It's ethnic cleansing ... Ole Kina is walking freely," he said. The Senator has denied the allegations of incitement. The leaders spoke on Friday in Mosop, Nandi County, during a senate ad hoc meeting with farmers on the maize crisis. Bungoma Senator and Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetangula, who was present, said security officers should restore calm and remain impartial. “When police go ta areas where there is conflict they should not take sides. Every human life is sacred. Politicians who incite others should not be allowed to hold office,” he said.   Matiang'i wants more arrests, says there are people supporting the violence.