The mystery man who gained access to Migori Governor Okoth Obado’s Personal Assistant Michael Oyamo in a cell on Saturday has maintained he is a military man who was on official mission. Mr Oyamo was arrested in connection to the killing of Rongo University student Sharon Otieno and botched abduction of Nation Journalist Barack Oduor. Speaking barely a day after Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) spokesperson Paul Njuguna denied the military sent an emissary to Homa Bay Police Station, the man identified as Lukas Ouko on Sunday insisted that he is a member of the military intelligence based at the Mtongwe Navy base in Mombasa. He said he had contacted his bosses in Mombasa “to handle this issue because I have received several calls with threats for having a link with Sharon’s murder”. He went on: “I was sent officially to find out whether Mr Oyamo had made necessary clearance from the Navy, which he left sometime in 2014.” “I did not discuss Sharon’s death with him. In fact, I was accompanied by a police officer, Inspector Wafula, and only took less than 20 minutes with Oyamo.” CLEARANCEThe 34-year-old man said he is a law abiding citizen and is ready to defend his mission in Homa Bay. “My line of questioning Oyamo was simply about his clearance from the military and not related to Sharon’s death.” Nyanza criminal investigations boss Michael Barasa said Mr Ouko had a letter from the military and produced a KDF identification card. “We are following up the matter because we understand he produced the documents before he was allowed to meet the suspect,” Mr Barasa said. Mr Ouko’s defence came as Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji called for investigations into circumstances under which the emissary gained access to the Homa Bay Police Station. HAJI WARNSMr Haji on Sunday questioned whether the access to Mr Oyamo was done as stipulated in law. “Even if a suspect has a right to be attended to as per the law, the question will be whether the access was recorded and (was) proper,” Mr Haji said during a press briefing at Haki Africa offices in Mombasa. “Are we imputing that there was intimidation or attempts for the same? Those are some of the questions that will need answered when investigations are complete.” Mr Haji also asked the public to stop speculating over the murder of Ms Otieno. “Let’s not speculate on the ongoing probe. All those are theories that will be put to test when the investigations are ongoing,” he said.   What homicide detectives are looking at.