Gor Mahia chairman Ambrose Rachier has dismissed reports that the club is in a crisis following a month-long spat with players and a section of officials that has weighed on the team’s performance. A players’ strike at the club in the last two weeks saw the team lose two consecutive league matches, a situation that badly exposed the growing disquiet within the playing unit and the disgruntlement within the club’s executive committee. Rachier addressed the criticism he has attracted lately regarding the cash crunch that saw players’ August salaries and winning bonuses of six league matches delayed, questionable transfer of key players in midseason, allegations of mismanagement of club’s funds and claims by the club’s organising secretary Judith "Nyangi" Anyango that he pocketed Sh3 million from the transfer of left back Godfrey Walusimbi. Using highbrow English while gesticulating animatedly at his audience, the long serving K’Ogalo chairman said that the delay in payment of salaries was a matter blown out of proportion “by misguided and disgruntled louts”, before assuring players that their August salaries would be in their accounts by close of business today. Rachier, who retained the chairman’s seat for a third consecutive time in December 2016, issued swift denials that he had benefitted from Walusimbi’s sale to South African club Kaizer Chiefs and that of striker Meddie Kagere to Tanzania’s Simba. “I categorically stat here and now that no single rand or penny has been paid to the club or to officials of the club or alleged agent at all. I challenge the demagogues and prophets of doom to call Kaizer Chiefs to establish the veracity of what I have stated before engaging in cheap publicity gimmicks,” he said. Rachier also absolved shirt sponsors SportPesa of any wrongdoing and apologized profusely for “the threats directed at them by goons and for any impression created that the delay in making the payment was attributable to them in any way whatsoever”. The renowned lawyer finished by promising to call an Annual General Meeting (AGM) later this year to allow registered members chart a way forward for the club, including the option of having him vacate his position as club chairman. “Under the current constitution, elections are due in 2020. But if members decide in the AGM that I will call at the end of this year that they want that period to be abridged, I will oblige. I will call elections even this year,” he said. Gor Mahia are scheduled to play Vihiga United this Wednesday in Mumias, before proceeding to Kisumu where their trophy presentation ceremony will take place after their match against Mathare United on Saturday.   The club has not paid August salaries and eight-match winning bonuses.