Kenya’s dancehall artiste Redsan launched his fifth studio album titled "The Baddest" last Saturday at the Carnivore Grounds. The concert featured Jamaican Dancehall artist Demarco, Nigerian songstress Tiwa Savage as well as Kenyan hip-hop artiste Khaligraph Jones. “I am bringing in my long-term friend Demarco, who I have collaborated with in the album, as the event’s main feature. I have also worked with Khaligraph before and we happen to share a similar vision. His dream is to bring Kenyan music to the world," he said before the concert, adding that it was the same vision he had 24 years ago when he started his career. “Tiwa Savage was an easy choice for me because she is one of the ladies I really admire in the Afro Beats scene and plans to work with her are already underway.” The "Badder Than Most" hitmaker said that his friendship, as well as previous music relationships, are part of the reasons the award-winning international artistes performed at the concert.    Speaking at a press conference on Friday, Tiwa Savage said she was happy to be back in Kenya to support Redsan. “He is one of the most consistent artistes I know and I really admire his style and distinct sound. I look forward to working with him as we take African music to the world,” she said. Demarco, real name Collins Edwards, also lauded Redsan and encouraged fans to turn out in large numbers and show their love for the artiste. “Redsan and I have been friends in music for a long time and I am glad to be back to support his album launch,” he said. GOOD MUSIC Revellers also got to enjoy a night filled with good music with popular Kenyan DJs Xclusive, Kriss Darlin and Wesley on the decks. Redsan's 17-track album was exclusively released by Safaricom on their digital platforms last Friday, with a worldwide release on all digital platforms planned thereafter. It includes collaborations with top artistes such as Demarco and Naila (formerly of the Brick and Lace duo) from Jamaica, Tanzania’s Ervix, Uganda’s Jose Chameleon, and Kenya's Yvonne Darc. Redsan said he collaborated with artistes who share his career visions and dreams. “I’ve always felt the need to collaborate with likeminded artists who see beyond one region and go on to establish international brands,” he said.    Redsan, real name Swabri Mohammed, is among the pioneering Kenyan music acts whose music has dominated the industry for more than two decades. His previous albums include "Seasons of the San" (2002), "Red" (2004), "Pioneer" (2006) and "Versatility" (2009). The artiste is known for his memorable album launches – he flew in Jamaican pop queens Brick and Lace for the launch of his fourth album, "Versatility". He won Best Kenyan Male Artiste at the Pearl of Africa Music Awards in 2006 and has received various nominations on continental award ceremonies, including Best East African Album for his "Pioneer" album at the Tanzania Music Awards in 2006, Most Promising African Male in 2003 and Best East African Male Artiste at the Kora Awards in 2004.   Mejja’s attitude and lyrical prowess makes the other two look like mere sidekicks.