The Kenya Revenue Authority has been hit by resignations across the board as President Uhuru Kenyatta ups the pressure for the tax collector to meet its revenue targets. Sources at KRA indicated that the resignations by top and middle level officers have been triggered by the pressure from their bosses to meet revenue collection targets and the realisation that Directorate of Criminal Investigations has been conducting quiet investigations on various officers. But even as this happens, the battle for the replacement of Commissioner General John Njiraini has been brewing in the background, which is affecting the smooth running of affairs. Already, three commissioners are set to leave KRA this year in what insiders say is related to the ongoing succession schemes. The resignations have affected deputy commissioners and chief managers who have opted not to renew their contracts. PUBLIC DEBT Commissioners, deputy commissioners and chief managers work under three-year contracts and are renewed under individual targets regime. Middle level employees who include managers, assistant managers and supervisors who are permanent and pensionable have also been quitting. All this is attributed to pressure to meet what insiders call “unrealistic“ targets. It is understood that President Kenyatta has been piling pressure to KRA to collect more revenue as the government grapples with foreign debt repayments. The President has in the past criticised KRA for never meeting their targets. “The targets vary from department to department, or region to region. They are always unrealistic and unachievable since they're not based on any scientific formula,” a source said. For the last few years KRA has not met any of its targets. KRA has also been upbraided by the Head of State for allowing Kenya to be infiltrated by counterfeit goods. COUNTERFEIT It is for this reason that the president appointed Deputy Head of Civil service Wanyama Musiambo to deal with the counterfeit menace, even as Mr Njiraini sought more time to deal with the mess. Even as this happens, KRA, which has over the years cultivated a clean image, has had its record put into serious doubt by Directorate of Criminal Investigations. Last week, several KRA employees were charged with allowing importation of substandard goods. The accused, who included KRA chief manager of container freight stations Kiprono Cole Bullut and customs head verification officer David Njagi Mbogori, were arrested in Mombasa over the importation of expired rice, substandard potassium nitrate fertiliser, adult diapers and tyre tubes. They appeared before chief magistrate Francis Andayi where they denied conniving to commit an offence, wilful disobedience to statutory duty, abuse of office and neglect of duty. Mr Bullut and Mr Mbogori were jointly accused of scheming to release a consignment of substandard Thai white rice to a company known as IGSAR Group Kenya Ltd. The rice was repackaged in the high seas and sold off as Kenyan rice in shop shelves. AUDIT The offences relating to importation of expired rice were allegedly committed on or about December 2017 in Mombasa County. The court also heard that on June 30, Mr Bullut allowed the clearance of substandard fertiliser to Elgon Kenya Ltd at the container terminal freight station. Between March 6 and 26, the court was further told that Mr Bullut and Mr Michael Lukhobia Juma, a customs head verification officer, released tyre tubes and flaps to Tire World Ltd. Mr Bullut was further accused of unlawfully releasing substandard adult diapers to Harleys Kenya Ltd between May 15 and June 7. In 2015, Mr Kenyatta had ordered KRA to conduct a lifestyle audit for its staff. This week KRA Commissioner for Intelligence and Strategic Operations James Mburu said that the audit was carried out and some employees were sacked. He said KRA requested the EACC to undertake the preliminary vetting of the 71 senior staff in the cadre of chief manager and above. He said EACC in April 2017 had recommended that the Internal Affairs Function be headed by a commissioner.  