Ibrahim Kibet ended his four-year wait for a major title on Saturday when he stunned top seed Ismael Changawa in straight sets to lift this year’s Britam Kenya Open Tennis Championships trophy at the Nairobi Club. It was a day to forget for the Changawa siblings after Shufaa Changawa lost in the women's final to the budding Angela Okutoyi in straight sets earlier at the same venue. Just like Shufaa, Ismael was the top seed in the men's category but Kibet produced a masterclass to claim his first Kenya Open title. The 22-year-old tactfully altered his game plan in each set to drub the three-time champion, 7-5, 6-4 for his maiden major victory in the thrilling final that lasted one hour and 45 minutes. “This is a great victory for me since this is my first time to reach the final and also beat Ismael,” said Kibet. “I had to be patient since Ismael is a good player and doesn’t give in easily.” Playing from the baseline, Kibet rallied from behind 2-4 to level at 5-5 before cracking his strong volleys and net drops to take the first set 7-5. Kibet then changed his approach to move to the service line before serving to level 1-1 but Ismael won back-to-back serves to retake the lead 2-1. A see-saw ensued thereafter with Kibet levelling at 2-2, 3-3 and 4-4. Kibet would then break Ismael’s serve to take the lead 5-4 for the first time in the set as the frustrated Ismael hauled his racket over the fans to the other side. Ismael's unbecoming behaviour is likely to draw a fine from Tennis Kenya. Kibet was home and dry as he served to win the set 6-4. “I knew I was good in volleys hence surging to the net after the serve. It worked very well putting Ismael under pressure,” said Kibet, who will be moving to the USA next year for studies on scholarship. Kibet dedicated his victory to Australian Jenny Ouliaris for taking him to Australia for four months training that has greatly improved his game. “I now want to concentrate my energies on Davis Cup preparations next year where I want Kenya to stay in Group II,” said Kibet.  