The Nairobi County Assembly Powers and Privileges Committee has initiated investigations into the fracas that led to Speaker Beatrice Elachi removal from office earlier this month. The committee protested interference by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC). GRILLING The commission summoned 12 ward representatives on September 11 over their unethical conduct a day earlier but they did not show up. On Tuesday, three Members of County Assembly (MCAs) appeared before the committee and were grilled on their involvement in the September 10 melee. Committee chair Naftali Mathenge complained that the anti-graft body overstepped its mandate in summoning the members before giving the Assembly a chance to investigate them. “The EACC should not be allowed within the premises of the Assembly. They overstepped their mandate because we are the ones supposed to deal with the cases. We need to invite them,” said Mr Mathenge. His sentiments were echoed by Hospital Ward MCA Patrick Musili who explained that the Assembly should be guided by the Powers and Privileges Act, 2017 when it comes to the conduct of members. Mr Musili observed that what transpired in Speaker Elachi’s office was not criminal so the EACC should have kept off for the matter to be handled by the House, guided by rules in the Constitution. “The Commission is overstepping its mandate because as a House we are supposed to enjoy some immunity. We are not talking about criminal cases but the conduct of members and ethical issues,” said Mr Musili. He explained that the committee is mandated to meet, investigate matters and recommend disciplinary action against members found guilty of committing offences or flouting rules of ethics. BLAME The committee, nonetheless, asked the summoned county legislators to explain what transpired on that day and state exactly how they were involved. Minority Chief Whip Peter Imwatok, who was last to be grilled, told the committee that he and other members were not at fault. He pointed the finger at Ms Elachi saying that her use of pepper spray on the members resulted in the chaos. “There was no Kamkunji held to eject Ms Elachi because she had already been impeached. If anything, it was the speaker who provoked the members,” said Mr Imwatok. He said that he went to Ms Elachi's office to check on her after he saw on television that she was hiding in a toilet and got concerned. “As far as I am concerned, I did my job. I made sure that she was out of the toilet. No member touched the speaker,” he added. Other MCAs who also appeared before the committee were Parklands MCA Jayendra Malde and his Mwiki counterpart Geoffrey Ng’ang’a.   Guyo says they will eventually honour the summonses but will not bow to intimidation.