The 2016 champions Butali Sugar Warriors established a 12 points cushion at the summit of the men’s hockey Premier League with a 6-0 hiding of Western Jaguars in Kakamega last weekend. The victory by Butali Sugar now puts defending champions Kenya Police, who have not been in action for three weeks now, under pressure to catch up. Butali Sugar, who have 14 wins and one loss, top the 12-team league with 42 points while Police are second with 30 points from 10 wins and a loss. Greensharks are third with 24 points followed by Wazalendo on 22 while Strathmore and Nairobi Simba are level on 19 points each but the Simba has a superior goal difference. Police, who had written to Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) to be exempted from initial stage of the second leg owing to financial constraints, resume action next weekend with a show down against Western Jaguars and United States International University (USIU). The free-scoring George Mutira, who is the leading scorer in the league, notched a hat- trick of goals as Butali Sugar led 2-0 at the break. It’s Frank Wanangwe who put Butali ahead when he converted from the spot in the 24th minute before Mutira’s field goal five minutes later. The third quarter proved water-tight for both teams with no scores forthcoming. HAT TRICK Mutira would then go for his second goal in the 49th minute before Barnabas Odhiambo’s sizzling field goal a minute later made it four. Sensational Zack Aura made it five from field goal in the 56th minute before Mutira sealed his hat trick two minutes to full time. Mutira now leads the scoring chats with 22 goals while Strathmore University Gladiators’ skipper Festus Onyango is second with 13 goals followed by Amos Barkibir of Police with 10. “I just thank God for the good health and wonderful teammates, who have been supportive since I joined them this season,” said Mutira, who was signed from Chase Sailors for the season. “Everything is working out for me and it feels good.” The 29-year-old Mutira said he is determined to help Butali recapture the Premier League title this season. “The league title will just be a bonus…we want that Africa crown,” affirmed Mutira. Strathmore University Gladiators recovered from a previous 3-1 defeat by Greensharks to hand Kenya College of Accountancy-University (KCA-U) a 3-0 defeat in the only other men’s Premier League duel last weekend. Alpha Mwambutsi’s brace in the last quarter sealed the convincing victory for Meshak Senge’s charges. The two sides failed to score in the first two quarters only for the Gladiators to break the deadlock just after half time from Edgar Makete’s field goal in the 34th minute. Then Mwambutsi stepped up in the 48th minute and on the stroke of full time to put Strathmore's win beyond doubt Meanwhile, Chase Sailors look destined to the Premier League next season despite squaring it out to a 2-2 draw with Technical University of Kenya (TUK) in a top of the table men’s Super League clash last weekend. Sailors lead with 31 points while TUK are second on 24 points.  