World Boxing Council (WBC) World super bantamweight champion Fatuma “Iron Fist” Zarika and her challenger Mexican Yamileth “Yeimi” Mercado have rallied fans to turn out in numbers to witness “the best of female boxing” on Saturday at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC). It is perhaps the most hyped fight in the recent past since the World Boxing Council World Female Middleweight title fight between Kenya’s Conjestina Achieng and American Yvonne Reis on April 1, 2006. Reis won the well-attended bout at the Moi International Sports Centre gymnasium, Kasarani. The fight’s supervisor Maria Milovanova said female boxing has come of age, hence the world should prepare for one of the finest and most enthralling display from the two boxers at KICC. “Let everyone bring a friend to this proposition since I promise not to disappoint,” said the 34-year-old Zarika, who tilted 55kg, just 0.3kg lighter than her challenger during the weigh-in on Friday at a Nairobi hotel. Mercado had exceeded the weight category by 0.2 kg, weighing 55.3kg on retake. “I have no pressure since I know I am in the best shape than before,” declared Zarika, adding that she has improved greatly, having worked on her weakness from her successful title defence against Catherine Phiri from Zambia on December 2, last year. “Not that I was in poor shape before I shifted my training to England six weeks ago, I just wanted some different opinion, atmosphere and exposure to what I was used. I am ready for action,” said Zarika. “I am here for boxing and I hope we shall both give our fans a good show. Kenyans have been nice and warm and let them turn up in numbers,” said Mercado, who was accompanied by her father Abel Mercado for the weigh-in. “I know it’s a challenge fighting away from home but I came here with an attitude of a winner.” Mercado said she was in camp for two months, having pitched her stable in the high altitude mountainous area of the Estado de Mexico that is 7,280 feet above sea level and Hermosilo Sonora that is at sea level. Just like Zarika, who trained alongside former WBC cruiserweight title holder Tony Bellew in Liverpool, Mercado bolstered her sessions with fellow countryman World Boxing Association and World Boxing Organisation flyweight champion, Juan Francisco Estrada. “It feels great to have Africa host not only some WBC world titles but top crème female bouts,” said Milovanova, who was accompanied by the bout's promoter Thomas Mutua of Afribox International Promotion. Zarika, who has not fought since beating Phiri, made history when she dethroned Jamaican Alicia Ashley off the title with a split-point decision on October 1, 2016 in USA, to become the first Kenyan to ever hold a WBC world title. Orthodox’s Zarika has 29 wins, 12 losses and two draws (29-12-2), while Mercado has 12 wins and one loss. (12-1-0). Besides the WBC, Zarika also won the Women's International Boxing Federation World Bantamweight title in 2007 and the Women's International Boxing Federation World Super Bantamweight title in 2008. Mercado fought last on June 1 this year in Hermosillo, Mexico, where she edged out her compatriot Beatriz Arangure on unanimous points in their super featherweight bout. Mercado has taken a shot at a title fight once when she lost to fellow country woman Jessica Arreguin Munoz for the vacant WBC FECOMBOX Female Super Bantamweight title on March 3 last year. The card that slugs at 6pm has four bouts including the WBC title fight. Order of bouts 1. Fred Nyakesa v George Onyango (lightweight) six rounds. 2. Charity Mukami v Florence Muthoni (middleweight) six rounds. 3. Rayton Okwiri v Patrick Amoti (middleweight) eight rounds. 4. Fatuma Zarika (Kenya) v Yamileth Mercado (Mexico) Fight 4 - 10 rounds WBC female world super bantamweight title.  