Police killed a man on Friday night when he confronted them as they patrolled clash-torn Nessuit in Eastern Mau, Nakuru County. Regional Coordinator Mongo Chimwaga said the victim was shot when he attacked the officers with arrows. ARRESTS "It was dark when a group started firing arrows. It was in the confrontation that ensued that the youth was shot," said Mr Chimwaga. Meanwhile, detectives have arrested Nakuru County Assembly Deputy Speaker Samuel Tonui alias Chonjo, who is the ward representative for Nessuit, and a former MCA over the clashes. The two were arrested on Friday night and taken to an undisclosed police station in Nakuru where they were expected to record statements. Two chiefs in the area - one from the Ogiek community and another from the Kipsigis - have also been arrested. They were apprehended after a security baraza on Friday evening. Mr Chimwaga confirmed the arrests and said security has been beefed to end the clashes that started last Wednesday. He clarified that the government has not imposed a curfew in the area but has restricted movement, between 6pm and 6am, particularly around trading centres. "We want to curb groupings until calm returns. There is no curfew order," he said. IDP CAMPS Mr Chimwanga said yesterday that the government will not set up camps for internally displaced persons (IDPs) following the clashes. At least 500 families fled after their houses were torched by armed groups. Addressing community members at Nessuit Secondary school in Njoro, he ordered people camped in schools in parts of Njoro and Molo to go back home. Mr Chimwanga said the government is planning to reopen all the schools that were closed following the fighting. "The government has no plans to set up IDP camps here so I want all of you to return to your houses as these schools need to run from Monday," he said. He added, however, that the government will help the families in other ways. FOREST CUTLINES The Regional Coordinator warned residents against taking matters into their own hands, saying those who took part in crimes will be punished. Mr Chimwanga dismissed claims by the two communities on the reasons for the violence, saying they are spreading rumours as there is no evidence. "No one should claim to know more about the cutlines than the government. Those who have been inciting the communities through giving misleading information will be held accountable." He addressed the people accompanied by members of the county security team, including commissioner Joshua Nkanatha. Nakuru Deputy Governor Eric Korir and MPs Charity Gathambi (Njoro), Francis Kuria (Molo) and Joseph Tonui ( Kuresoi South) were also present. Three people have lost their lives while more than 10, including police officers, are nursing injuries, most from arrow shots.   3 feared dead at Nessuit area in Eastern Mau.