The battle for the two automatic promotion slots to next season’s SportPesa Premier League (SPL) takes another interesting turn on Saturday with nine National Super League (NSL) matches on cards. Leaders Western Stima visit Green Commandos at Bukhungu Stadium chasing their 22nd win this term and the sixth in a row. The Paul Ogai-coached side, who edged out City Stars 1-0 last Sunday, have a seven-point lead on the 19-team log with 70 points after 32 rounds. “Every game is a final for us. We are playing for maximum points because the league is so competitive, any slip up can leave you regretting,” said Stima coach Ogai whose charges whipped the Kakamega High school-owned team 4-0 in the first leg in May. The Students, who were awarded a walk over in midweek after Kangemi AllStars failed to honour their fixture at Bukhungu stadium, are ready for the "familiar opponents" according to Coach Brenden Mwinamo. At Hope Centre in Kawangware, second-placed Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) play sixth-placed City Stars in a clash of former premier league sides. The Bankers are on a resurgence under caretaker coach Elvis Ayany with identical back-to-back 2-1 wins over Kisumu AllStars and Kenya Police. The two teams have previously met 17 times with KCB winning eight times, City Stars six while three of the matches have ended in a draw. The Kawangware-based City Stars were 3-2 winners over KCB in the first leg played on May 2. Elsewhere, Nairobi Stima, who have dropped to third position following a two-match winless run, host relegation-threatened Nakuru AllStars at Karuturi grounds. The Ibrahim Shikanda-led Stima lost 2-1 to Golden Field Evangelism (GFE) 105 before settling for a barren draw against Bidco United last Saturday. Two teams will be promoted to the topflight while the side that finishes third will head into a two-leg promotion/relegation playoff with third-last team from the top tier. FIXTURES St. Joseph Youth v Modern Coast Rangers (Afraha stadium, 12pm) Coast Stima v Administration Police (Mbaraki Sports club, 3pm) Green Commandoes v Western Stima (Bukhungu stadium, 3pm) Bidco United v Talanta (Thika Subcounty stadium, 3pm) Kibera Black Stars v Ushuru (Hope Centre, 1pm) City Stars v KCB (Hope Centre, 3.15pm) Kenya Police v Kisumu AllStars (Karuturi grounds, 1pm) Nairobi Stima v Nakuru AllStars (Karuturi grounds, 3.15pm) Kangemi AllStars v Migori Youth (Camp Toyoyo grounds, 2pm)   Western Stima now have 70 points, seven ahead of second placed KCB.