At least 200 golfers had by Tuesday registered to play in this year’s Shangilia Children’s Home charity tournament to be played on Friday at the par 72 Vet Lab Sports Club. The tournament organiser, Mary Karano, a former national ladies golf champion and a member of Vet Lab, said that more golfers are expected to register before the draw is done. “I have received tremendous support from Vet Lab as well as other clubs in the country, though I am still hoping to get more golfers to list their names before I do the draw,’’ said Karano. Among the golfers drawn for the charity event include former Kenya Golf Union (KGU) chairman Muchau Githiaka, Moses Njoroge, Julius Orenge, Alois Nderi, KGU Secretary Peter Kiguru, Victor Gichuru and Paul Njoki. The Shangilia Children’s Home fund-raising event has been taking place annually since 2014. It is in aid of the home’s various activities including paying school fees, food and clothing. The home’s Director, Japheth Njenga said this year’s proceeds will go towards paying fees for Simon Kigochi and Paul Maina, who study at Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology and Kenya College of Accountancy. Njenga said the home houses 252 children picked from the streets and have no parents or from poor backgrounds. The home, manned by 30 staff including teachers, provides shelter and education. Besides a primary school, the home situated at Kibagare in the Loresho Ridge, also has a centre which trains performing Arts. CORPORATE ORGANISATIONS The Shangilia Artists have performed in various parts of the world. “Out of the 252 children, 48 are in high school and 25 are in technical training colleges, with 10 in university and all their fees are paid by the home, which gets its funding through donations by people of goodwill’’ said Njenga, who added that the home’s annual budget is about Sh20 million. For Friday’s tournament, entry fee will be Sh2500, which can be paid before teeing off time. Karano thanked all the golfers who have already listed their names to play, as well as the various corporate organisations which are either sponsoring teams or have made donations. Leading the sponsors this year are Cooper Kenya, Housing Finance, Britam, Moses Tractors, Bobmill, MTN Insurance Brokers, Supergolf Group, Southern Sun, Rone Insurance Agency, Knight Frank, Paragon Properties and Artech Systems. Meanwhile, lady golfers from across the country will be flock the scenic Nakuru Golf Club’s par 73 course for the annual Kenya Ladies Golf Union (KLGU) Ladies open this weekend. The event, which is the second from last in the ladies 2018 national calendar, starts with the first round at Njoro Country Club on Friday. This will be a stableford event where men will also be in action. This will be followed by the second round on Saturday at Nakuru Golf Club in the morning and the mixed foursomes in the afternoon. The main medal event, which counts for the Golfer of The Year (GOTY), is set for Sunday morning.  