Q.I recently started a kibanda selling hot food. Business was booming until four more people started their vibandas in the estate. What can I do to stand out in the face of new competition?  If someone starts a business and it does well, others are bound to copy it, hoping to also succeed. This breeds understandable fear, that stiff competition will run you out of town. Competition can be a good thing because it makes everyone up their game in a bid to attract and keep customers. However, be careful not to get too caught up in trying to beat the competition. The thing is, people can copy what you do, but the how you do it will set you apart. You can be selling the same food, have the same ambience and many other similarities with the competition, but you cannot be exactly the same. There’s something that sets you apart. That’s your competitive advantage, the secret ingredient you can count on. Focus on understanding your customers: Why do they come to you and not others? What do they like about the service and products you offer? What don’t they like or what do they think you can do better? If you understand what your customers want and need and offer it to them to the best of your ability, you should be able to do well. Some of the things that draw customers to you could be intangible – it could be about how you make them feel and other little things that one might shrug off as insignificant. Listen up for customer feedback and engage clients as you serve them, so you can learn what is working, what is not and how to serve your customers better. Customer feedback can also help you find new gaps related to your business that you can fill. For example, a customer who comes only now and then might give you the idea to deliver food to those who can’t make it to the kibanda because they are hungry, but stuck at work or even at home. Above all, continue offering the best food and service, without forgetting the secret ingredient (competitive advantage) that keeps your customers asking for more. Keep learning what your customers need and strive to offer it to the best of your ability, and remember to be consistent. All the best! *** Do you have a business question? Please email: lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com  