Legendary RnB star Mary J Blige and her ex-husband Martin Kendu Isaacs have been sued for Sh5.8 million by their former landlord after the mansion they once resided in was allegedly damaged and abandoned. The former spouses first rented the property for sh2.6 million a month back in May 2015 according to the landlord, Golden Venus LLC. They plunked down a Sh5.1 million security deposit for the mansion and sought to extend their lease in April 2016 for Sh2.7 million a month. However, according to papers served in the court, the landlord said the couple went delinquent on their payment from August to November. They did not pay Sh8.5 million which was due August 5, 2016 leading to their subsequent departure from the mansion. After they left, the landlord told the court that there were holes in the walls of the home and the garage doors were broken, leading to a total damage of Sh1.6 million. Also, audio entertainment equipment worth Sh3.1 million were missing. The landlord reached an agreement with the Grammy-winning vocalist and her ex to forfeit the Sh5.1 million security deposit and agreed to pay an additional Sh2.7 million but they didn’t honour their promise. Both Blige and Isaacs are being sued for a total of Sh5,832,750 plus interest.   Victoria Kimani is the face of Maybelline NY   It seems the flood gates of endorsements have opened up to Kenyan artistes and they are now landing huge deals left right and centre. Just days after rapper King Kaka was picked to be the Remy Martins brand ambassador, another rapper Nonini signed an ambassadorial deal with Safaricom for its Skiza tune services, then rappers Octoppizo and Fena Gitu were named as new Smirnoff Mix Brand ambassadors. Songbird Victoria Kimani has been the latest to join the growing list. The melodious and sensational Afro-pop singer recently landed a major endorsement deal with Maybelline New York, a major American makeup brand.She joins international stars like Jourdan Dunn and Gigi Hadid in landing a Maybelline deal. However, Victoria is the first African artiste to collaborate with the brand, setting a new precedent for African artistes in both the music and business world"I am very excited to partner with Maybelline NY especially here in Kenya. The brand has always shared my personal view and philosophy as it pertains to my goals to “MAKE IT HAPPEN (the campaign’s slogan),” she said. Maybelline NY which has a strong presence in Kenya is owned by French multinational L’Oreal.   Connie Kabarry nominated for Nollywood award   Kenyan actress Connie Kabarry has landed two nominations in Nigeria’s Nollywood Excellence and Leaderships Awards (NELLAS AWARDS) 2018. The budding actress landed the nominations in the ‘Nollywood Pan African Film Maker of The Year’ and ‘Nollywood Actress of The Year East Africa’ categories. This follows the successful launch of her latest movie, in which she stars, The Devil You Know. Learning of the nomination, a delighted Connie, who left the country on Friday for the award ceremony event set to be held today at the Hotel Rosedbud in Abuja, couldn’t hide her joy. "On behalf of team Connie Kabbarry, I am so grateful to our Kenyan supporters who have showed us much love and support getting us this far. Being nominated in the Nollywood Excellence & Leadership Awards means a lot to me because my dream is to see Nollywood and Riverwood working together. This is a path I will keep championing for,” said Connie.  Wizkid for Kenya again   Nigeria star Wizkid is expected to visit the country again in November. He is set to headline the first edition of the Katika Festival. The inaugural event is scheduled for November 3 and will be hosted at Nakuru’s Afraha Stadium, which can host at least 8,000 people. After the first edition, Katika Festival will be a bi-monthly event set to be taking place in different cities across the country. According to the organisers, the festival aims to create memorable, exciting out of town events for road trips and party lovers. Wizkid’s visit will come just two months after his close friend and singer Tiwa Savage, who they were rumoured to be having an affair with, was in the country for Redsan’s album launch.  Safaricom’s wild jazz   Globally acclaimed American Jazz performer and skilled scat singer Dianne Reeves will headline this year’s Safaricom Jazz lounge. Breaking from the norm, this year will feature two shows — the first at Uhuru Gardens on October 18 and the other set at the Hell’s Gate National Park in Naivasha on Mashujaa Day, October 20. The 61-year-old Grammy winner will headline both shows and will be backed by Italy’s Double Cut as well as Kenyan guitarist Kato Change. Safaricom Jazz Lounge is one of a series of events which builds up to the annual Safaricom Intentional Jazz which normally takes place in February. Reeves has received three Grammy Awards for Best Jazz Vocal Performance recordings. After the Safaricom Jazz Lounge, another American Jazz veteran, two time Grammy Award winner Marcus Miller, will headline the Safaricom Jazz Festival scheduled for February next year. The 59-year-old has been performing for over 30 years, winning Awards along the way including 2013 Edison Lifetime Achievement.   His ex-wife Nicah accused Ofweneke of physical abuse while he accused her of infidelity.