While dozing off as I went through one of the plays I had to read for my degree, one line caught my attention in the historical drama Kinjeketile by Tanzanian writer Ebrahim Hussein. “A man gives birth to a word. Finally it becomes bigger than the man who gave it birth.” It was in reference to the words uttered by the famous Kinjeketile Ngwale, the Tanzanian witchdoctor who catalysed the Maji Maji Rebellion by convincing people that if he sprayed them with a concoction he had made, they could be immune to bullets from German soldiers. He must have been the real charmer, this Kinjeketile. If I had the same appeal, I would convince Kenyan “Team Mafisi” members that they can spray my formula on themselves and approach any girl and they would be immune to any slap that may come their way. Woman representatives will sure flock to my shop to buy my concoction should they be planning to storm any governor’s office. Or I would spray it over the players of Manchester United — the team that I support, which should change its nickname from “Red Devils” to “Tatu Tena” because it has been conceding goals in threes — and tell them that no other club will score a goal against them again. At least they may stop chasing shadows on the pitch and get Coach Mourinho the respect he so much wants. Back to Kinjeketile. The words from the play rang in my mind this week as I pondered over the news of US President Donald Trump bashing Google for “burying” results about him if they come from conservative news outlets (that often support his agenda). With that came remarks from a senior White House official about regulating Google’s page ranking criteria. SUCCESSFUL FIRMS Earlier in the year, Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg was before the US Congress explaining the workings of his social media network — like what it does with the users’ data it collects, what goes on in a phone once the user is not using the app, and such. Google and Facebook are, without doubt, hugely successful firms. And just like Kinjeketile’s word, I consider them companies that were once a single man’s words that became way bigger than the people who gave birth to them. Google started in 1996 as a PhD project by Larry Page and Sergey Brin. Facebook began as a university-centric site run by Zuckerberg in 2004. They grew way bigger than the individuals behind them, to the extent that the European Union has created a body of laws to govern them and other tech companies. Now Zuckerberg is worth $71 billion while the Google founders are worth a combined $96.3 as per statista.com. I watched the Zuckerberg grilling before the Congress attentively. What if he told them that Facebook is his website and he can do whatever he pleases with it? What if he told the congressmen that he had no obligation to anybody because it is a private site and not a government agency? THORN IN THE FLESH As the questioning went on, I could not help pitying the man. Something you created, where you do not force anyone to join, becomes a thorn in your flesh; something that makes even the most tech-illiterate people ask you probing questions. But I surmised that, that is the cost of success. And in my dreams, as I ruminate about creating a brand that may change Kenya soon, I always wonder if there is a time it will grow bigger than I am; that I will be summoned to Parliament and be grilled by greying eggheads while holding that thin “red-light” microphone with busy assistants by my side. I wonder whether my brand will make someone ask for the creation of a law to address something, just as there have been calls for laws to tame hate speech on Facebook and Twitter in different countries. But one thing I’m certain of is that, for me to have made it, my dream project must grow way bigger than me, much like the Kenyan start-ups that have made an impact both locally and internationally. And, hey, I am not talking about a child. Some grow bigger than their parents and even beat them up, but I don’t think birthing a giant should be considered one of the successes in life.   Elvis Ondieki is a ‘Nation’ reporter. eondieki@ke.nationmedia.com. Caroline Njung’e’s column resumes soon.   Advocates must be making a killing from the ongoing arrests of individuals linked to corruption