There is a conspiracy against the media. It is an evil conspiracy, which involves fragrant violation of copyright and the most odious impunity. But where are my manners? This is no way to tell a story. Where is the circumlocution? Where is the irrelevant analogy? Let me try again. When thuggish FBI agent Matt Graver is summoned to a meeting by the Secretary of Defence and asked to use his experience in extreme measures in Iraq against Mexican cartels that had started smuggling terrorists into the US in Sicario: Day of Soldado, he warns: “If you want me to do that, this will get dirty.” And the secretary stares bleakly at him and answers: “Dirty is why you are here.” His first recommendation is, don’t bump off the drug lords, if you do, 10 even more vicious ones will arise to fill the vacuum. STABILITY Unless you are a hard-core fan of generally bad action movies, I’m not recommending the Sicario sequel; I’m just making the point that big, stable organisations are invariably unlikely to upset the status quo, even if they are criminal organisations. They are invested in some of form of stability, however bloody and vicious. Without it, the drug lord loses his business, if not his head. In the normal, law-abiding world of business, big organisations are a source predictability, bulwarks against risk and uncertainty. Today, if you kill off the Nation Media Group, The Standard Group, The People and the Star, they will likely be replaced by a smaller bunch of publications and blogs with no money to invest in skills, probably more concerned with day-to-day survival than providing a platform for sensible conversations and, therefore, a less effective watchdog. Now, I know in this country anyone with access to his mum’s phone is a journalist and an expert on every topic under the moon. SPACE Our brothers in the political wing of civil society, sheathed in their designer faux African outfits, also fancy themselves the Danubes of journalistic wisdom. And they are probably right. But I also know the journalism that counts: No glamour, just the unassuming reporting which takes superhuman courage and dedication to the story. Defaming other Kenyans and serving social media homilies from the comfort of your air-conditioned SUV is possibly clever, but it is easy. Many of these “journalist” folks would end up in the maternity, on two drips, if they went on assignment to count the dead babies of Pumwani Maternity Hospital. What the Twitter geniuses are having a problem processing is that the body counters they so revile are the warriors who keep the space open. Without them, in no time, the geniuses would either be squealing in Block D of Kamiti Maximum Prison or freezing in the snows of exile. COUNTERFEIT No, I think I need to start considering hailing a taxi and generally begin the journey towards the point. People are going to great trouble, even spending money, to obtain counterfeit copies of newspapers and then distributing them through WhatsApp groups, Telegram pornographers and sometimes even Facebook. There is no difference between these folks and their ilk in Kariobangi making fake tomato sauce. On September 5, the Telegram bandit reproduced 39 pages of the Daily Nation. It costs a whole load of money to do newspapers. To steal digital copies and offer them in order to build value through a bigger audience is criminal. There are criminals and then there are the “innocent” freeloaders and cheapskates in mom and pop chat groups who just want to get something for nothing. It is dishonest, but it also comes with a risk. One piece of advice which is always given about digital stuff: If it is free, you are the product. SPYWARE If somebody is spending their money to get counterfeit newspapers to put in your phone, what’s in it for them? They might be doing nasty stuff with your gadget. It might be so full of virus that in the middle of the night it comes on, sits up, perhaps even walks to the kitchen and makes a cup of tea — with your milk. Seriously, though, the eventual cost of viruses and spyware is far greater than the Sh60 you save by looking for a pirated copy of the paper. And who are the pirates? Well, I hope to know soon, though rogue elements and hackers who hang around the government are top on the list. The question is whether they are working alone, with the support of the deep state or the backing of tenderpreneurs. It’s bad strategy, even worse for the future of democracy, but no one expects these Sicarios to care about that. * * * I went to church during the divisive election period last year and it was like walking into a shelter from the rain. The folks were praying for Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga with such love and sincerity at a time the two could not be mentioned in the same sentence. It was a beautiful experience. And we have our columnist, Bishop Philip Kitoto, a wonderful, loving counsellor and pastor, to thank for that. His influence and leadership — based on genuine piety, values, a love for God and fellow man — are a pillar of the International Christian Centre, where he has ministered for a long time. Bishop Kitoto was this week installed the General Superintendent of the Kenya Assemblies of God church. He counsels readers on relationships. mmutuma@ke.nationmedia.com  