American R&B musician Kenny Lattimore says he has fulfilled his mother's dream by visiting Kenya. The soft spoken artiste, who is scheduled to perform at The Carnivore in Nairobi on Saturday, said his mother always wanted him to visit Kenya. “My presence in the country is a manifestation of my mother’s dream through myself,” said the singer. His mother discovered his singing potential when he was twelve years old and encouraged him to sing. The 51-year-old singer added that Kenya was a place that he has dreamt about for years. “I have some great talented friends who come from here that I’ve worked on albums with… it’s almost surreal,” said Lattimore during a press briefing in Nairobi on Thursday. Lattimore, who has been nominated for many awards but never won a Grammy, added that he still wants to travel to more places around the world. During an interview on NTV on Friday morning, the “Never Too Busy” hitmaker said that his purpose is to sing to the hearts of women and the minds of men. encouraging them to love. He added that he admired the late Luther Vandross because of his live performances.    MUSIC INDUSTRY As he prepared for his Saturday concert, Lattimore said: “I want to feel the energy because every show is different because it's a different audience.” He also said that social media is a great way to expose talent. However, many times after artistes are signed up, the record labels discover the artistes are lazy. Yet, record labels look for people to prove themselves. “I remember when I did ‘Never Too Busy’ I sat back and said ‘Wow! That sounds like a single’. It didn't sound like anybody else on the radio and that's what I wanted.” Lattimore adds that the biggest transition in the industry is the way music is marketed, and the money spent now is tremendously lower than before. “You finance your own dreams. You don't have to prostitute yourself at any point, you don't have to go on anyone's schedule.” The singer, who attended Howard University for Fine Arts and dropped out as a freshman after getting a deal to join Maniquin as a lead vocalist, says that from his experience, Africans tend to be more aware about life and politics. “You are more intelligent about what is happening around you, whereas in America we tend to be dumbed down.” His influences range from gospel music that he grew up on, R&B greats, from Chaka Khan and Marvin Gaye to Donny Hathaway and Stevie Wonder. Lattimore’s music still plays on contemporary R&B charts and he continues touring the world. In a video shot before he arrived in Kenya to promote his Nairobi concert, he said: “It is going to be romantic, bring your mums, your sisters, boyfriends and friends.”   Cher is the Empress of Entertainment.