Police in Embu have recovered the decomposing body they suspect to be that of a 54-year-old Nairobi businessman who went missing five months ago. The body thought to be that of Mr James Maina Muikia was found inside his damaged car, which was trapped inside River Thiba in Urua village, Mbeere South Sub County, on Sunday. DNA TEST Mbeere South police boss Ahmed Mohammed said though family members had confirmed that it was Mr Muikia car, they would match finger prints and conduct a DNA test to establish if the body was his. The businessman went missing on April 21 while driving his silver VolvoXc60, registration number KCN 336R, near Rwika market. “We retrieved the vehicle and found a male adult body. We suspect he is the owner of the vehicle. We are trying to match fingerprints,” said Mr Mohammed. The body was taken to Siakago Hospital mortuary for postmortem while the vehicle was towed to Kiritiri police station.   He said they suspect the vehicle was swept away by floods in April and carried for about six kilometers before it got stuck between two huge rocks. Area residents spotted the roof of the vehicle and alerted the police and a search was mounted. “We think that the person who went missing during the month of April is the same one who was found inside,” said Mr Mohammed. HIS FARM “During that period, we experienced heavy rains and it was flooding and it is only this month that the water volume started to subside. The vehicle was in a very deep place and it is a crocodile infested river. The vehicle also had a lot of sand in it.” On the fateful day, Mr Maina is reported to have visited his farm in Embu. Makima MCA Philip Nzangi, who was among the people who helped retrieve the vehicle, said they used tractors from nearby farms.   He said the vehicle appeared to have been swept away by water for about six kilometers from the Gachuriri Bridge in Kakawa area. “It seems like it was a normal accident where the vehicle was swept by water. We are suspecting that it might have been swept from Kakawa area near the Gachuriri Bridge since that is where the road is. The water level were high during the rainy season,” said Mr Nzangi.   