A sombre mood engulfed Ngata estate in Nakuru town as former Harambee Stars coach Sammy Nyongesa was finally laid to rest on Friday. Families, friends,  ormer players and other members of the local football fraternity thronged the venue to pay their last respects to the fallen tactician. Mourners eulogised the former coach as a man of great honour, whose legacy will forever remain in peoples; hearts. His widow, Ruth Atieno Nyongesa, struggled to hold back tears as she mourned her departed husband. She recalled the last moments she shared with her husband before his demise, when he told her that his wish was to see Kenyan football rise to higher standards. She described him as a loving and responsible husband, who extended his generosity to taking care of his players. "Sammy leaves a legacy of love and integrity. He has left behind wonderful memories of a loving husband, father and grandfather," said Atieno. His last born daughter, Sara Nelima broke down as she read her father’s eulogy. "We are grateful for each and every day we got to see his glowing smile and for the lessons learnt and for the jokes we shared," said Nelima Former players, who went through Nyongesa's training, called for the revival of football youth centres in his honour. They further called upon the government to recognise the former coach as a hero as well as pay his salary arrears during his stint as Harambee Stars coach. "We are working on a document which we will present before parliament seeking to have Nyongesa recognised as a sports hero. We will also petition the Sports Ministry to revive the Olympic Youth centres to help tap the talents among the youth," said Colonel (retired) Eliud  Gachoka. Benjamin Koskei, the Nakuru County Chief Officer in-charge of Sports, read Governor Lee Kinyanjui’s  condolence message. Kinyanjui  said the county was planning for an annual football tournament, whose funds will be channelled towards supporting Nyongesa's family. Nyongesa 64, succumbed to prostrate cancer at the Nakuru War Memorial hospital on August 24. The former national team coach started his football career at the Kenya Farmers Association FC in 1974, before joining Bata Limuru in 1988. He joined Harambee stars Under-18 side in 1979, before leaving for Germany to train as a coach. He coached the Nakuru Youth Olympic team, which he founded in 1979, before managing Harambee Stars. Nyongesa leaves behind nine children- seven sons and two daughters. Nyongesa was the father to the former Ulinzi Stars and AFC Leopards player Mike Baraza. During the funeral service, Nyongesa was honoured with a minute of silence for his dedication to the development of the game in the country.  