A recurrent patella tendon injury has forced former marathon World Record holder, Patrick Makau, into early retirement. The 33-year-old Makau, who won Berlin Marathon twice; in 2010 and in 2011 with a World Record time of 2:03:38, regretted that he is leaving a sport that has been the most rewarding, having rescued him from extreme poverty. “I had a wonderful career as an athlete, a career which profoundly challenged and changed me, allowing me to grow and to make positive impact on lives of my family and our community,” said Makau, the 2007 World Half Marathon champion. “For this I am truly grateful.” “With age catching up and a persistent patella-tendon injury that forced him to withdraw from last year’s Boston and Berlin marathons, I know this is the right time to say it is enough,” said Makau in an emotional statement on Wednesday. Makau, who now turns his focus to coaching with a view of developing and guiding the next generation of distance runners, regret not having made Team Kenya for the 2012 London Olympics despite having set the World record the previous year. Makau, who started his road running career with victory at the 2005 Zanzibar Half Marathon, opined that failure to embrace physio work and strength and conditioning early enough during his career is perhaps what led to the slow recovery with injuries. Makau, who ran his maiden marathon in Rotterdam in 2009 finishing fourth, paid tribute to the late Danish coach Zane Branson saying he was instrumental to his running my career. “His kindness, advice, commitment and friendship will live with me forever. Thank you Zane for loving my family and for everything you have done for us,” said Makau as he paid tribute to his Adidas Running team led by Spencer Nel. “It was a privilege to wear three-stripes and take marathon World Record back to Kenya in one of the best shoes ever made.” Makau also expressed his gratitude to Berlin Marathon race director Mark Milde his London Marathon counterpart David Bedford and Frankfurt Marathon race director Jo Schindler among others for the opportunity.   Kipruto is happy his training session went on well without any incident.