The 11th Annual FilmAid Film Festival will be showcased in Nairobi from tomorrow up to Friday. This year’s festival is dubbed “My Story. My Voice. Your Move” and is a celebration of self-expression and determination. In the last two weeks, FilmAid has been showcasing short films and documentaries which have been made by FilmAid’s students living in Dadaab and Kakuma refugee camps. A selection of international short films are also being screened in the camps and in Nairobi. “My Story, My Voice, Your Move” is a platform for young filmmakers to assert their right to be heard, and a call to action for the world to listen. The festivals kicked off on September 3 at Dadaab before moving to Kakuma. The festival culminates in Nairobi with an invite-only gala where awards will be given to the winners. The festival is an opportunity to not only showcase the skills of FilmAid's students, but to provide them with access so their voices can be heard. It is a celebration of all the talent and tenacity of FilmAid students. Film screening events were complemented by panel discussions, involving the refugees and press alike, focusing on "Media, Arts and the Refugee Narrative". The discussion will be looking at how refugees are portrayed as innocent victims, or as self-made success stories by the international press while on social media and in the partisan press, they are increasingly portrayed as a danger to "our" way of life, or from a different political perspective, as innocent victims of xenophobia and bigotry. FilmAid's Film Festival is held in multiple locations in Nairobi, including the slums of Eastleigh and Kibera where many refugees and migrants live. The festival is supported by the US Government, UNHCR and the Hollywood Foreign Press Association. The students go on to become advocates for themselves and their own communities. They become citizen journalists, advocates for girls’ rights, fixers for visiting journalists, communications staff for other NGOs in the camp, and role models for their community. “Letter To The Outsider” from Hong Kong, “Are You Volleyball?!” from Iran, and Kenyan film “Defying the Odds” are some of the short films to be screened at various locations in Nairobi. One of FilmAid’s success story is filmmaker Amina Rwimo, a Congolese refugee living in Kakuma camp. She has her own production company, Exile Key Films, with other filmmakers based in Kakuma. She made the film “It Killed my mother” which was shortlisted and eventually won an SFF award for the Best Film In Kenya. The film addresses a pertinent topic, FGM. She addressed the topic hoping to start a conversation on the outdated practice that has cut short many lives from her community.  