The scenic Limuru Country Club course hosts the second leg of this year’s CIC Insurance Group Golf Series on Saturday, which comes three months after the first leg at Vet Lab Sports Club. A field of 150 golfers was drawn to battle for number of prizes CIC, a leading co-operative enterprise in Africa and pioneer in micro-insurance, is offering for club members, guests and staff. Among the guests drawn are ex-international rugby personalities, Humphrey Kayange, Lavin Asego, Newton Ongalo and George Mbaye, among others. Leading the staff will be the Group CEO Tom Gitogo, while others will be Ezekiel Owuor (managing director CIC Life) and Elijah Wachira (managing director CIC General Insurance). “This event offers the company a great opportunity to interact with golfers most of whom are our clients and business partners. It’s a chance for us to be able to communicate and update them on the organization’s products and services, as well as strategic direction set to position us in the market,” said Tom Gitogo. From Limuru, the next stop-over for the third leg will be Nakuru Golf Club on September 22. Meanwhile, over 100 golfers drawn from various clubs in the country will be at the Swiss International Golf Resort Mount Kenya, near Naru Moru in Nyeri County, for a charity golf tournament. The event is in aid of Our Lady of Perpetual Help Education Centre, which caters for more than 185 disadvantaged children. This is the first event being held at the beautiful par 72 nine-hole course that offers a tough and competitive round of golf with an excellent view of both the Mount Kenya and the Aberdares. Speaking on the staging of staging of this weekend’s tournament, dubbed “Swing to uplift charity fun golf day,” Total Golf Solutionz director Paresh Jai and property developer Ronald Ndegwa said the tournament had received encouraging entries ahead of the event although more players “would be more than welcome.” Jai said besides individual golfers, the event has also received generous sponsorship support from Swiss International Hotels and Resorts, DT Dobie, Safaricom, Oxygène MCL, Indemnity Club, Express Shipping and Logistics, 50 Ventures, Sabrina Holdings, and Warsteiner. Other sponsors are Transcountry, Africa Biosystems Ltd, Norkun Intakes and NISK Capital. Located in the valley of both the majestic Mount Kenya and Aberdare Mountain ranges, Swiss International Resort Mount Kenya is is scheduled to open its doors in December, 2019 and current features a recently developed nine-hole Golf course, with double tees. Back in Nairobi, lady golfers will be at Karen Country Club this weekend for historical Nancy Millar Trophy started by Nancy Millar many years ago. A very popular ladies event, the Nancy Millar trophy is a 54-hole inter-club event with each club represented by a team of four. During last year’s tournament, Rose Naliaka’s team of Loise Akinyi, Ashley Awuor, Faith Ontune and Doris Mideva produced their usual fireworks, to clinch the trophy. Unfortunately, they will miss this year’s event as the draw was done last Saturday before the legendary Naliaka had sent the names of her players. “We were expecting the draw to be done on Monday this week, this is why we could not send the names on Saturday’’ said Naliaka. Still in Nairobi, lawyers playing golf will be at Royal Nairobi Golf Club for the Wakili Golf Day which has attracted an impressive field while Vet Lab, now a popular local golf destination, will be the venue for the SuperGolf with Nanyuki staging the Njuri Ncheke golf tournament.   This will be in addition to the usual prizes being offered by Nation.