Methodist Church of Kenya leaders have disputed claims that the church is dogged by leadership wrangles and is interfering with the management of Kenya Methodist University. Speaking during the burial of Rev Julius Golicha in Isiolo on Sunday, the leaders who included former Presiding Bishop Lawi Imathiu and former North Imenti MP Silas Muriuki said the church and the university are in good hands. This comes after a group of clergy led by Reverends Kobia Ataya, Misheck Kanake, Jeremiah Anondo and Jacob Gituma called for the removal of Presiding Bishop Joseph Ntombura over mismanagement of the institutions. Bishop Ntombura is also the KeMU chancellor. LEGALLY APPOINTED But Mr Imathiu said any grievances should be aired through the proper channels. "There are no leadership wrangles in the Methodist Church. The church leadership structure is clear from the local church, the circuit, synod and conference. Any issue touching on the church should go through these channels," Bishop Imathiu said. "Bishop Ntombura was picked by the conference and is rightfully in office. He is the shepherd of the Methodist Church in Kenya. Even those making noise and hitting him are his sheep. They are welcome back home." KEMU Former MP Muriuki said Kenya Methodist University is being managed without external pressure. He is the Board of Trustees chairman. "Contrary to naysayers, the Methodist Church is not running KeMU. We have a BoT and a council that is in control. The board of trustees is appointed by the conference and not the bishop. "The council is made up of competent professionals and the two organs are fully executing their mandate," he said. He said those speaking ill of the institution have nothing but ulterior motives. DEBT REPAYMENT More importantly, he assured that the university will pay off the Sh42 million debt owed to more than 60 workers who filed a lawsuit that led to the seizure of vehicles by auctioneers. KeMU deputy vice chancellor - finance and administration - David Gichoya also said the university is financially sound. "When we took over in July last year, we inherited a lot of debts but we are working hard to salvage the situation. Since July last year, we have not borrowed any loan. This means the burden is reducing. I am in the kitchen and I can assure you the food is smelling nice," Prof Gichoya said.   Mr Silas Muriuki says a bloated workforce and high salaries are to blame.