Athletics Kenya (AK) assured Tuesday that Kenyan distance runner Joseph Kiprono, who was felled by a car on Sunday as he led a half-marathon in Colombia, is safe and well. Kiprono, 38, a previous winner of the Medellin Half Marathon, was struck by a car that authorities said had "violated a road closure." He was treated by medics on the spot, taken to hospital with cuts and bruises and later reported by doctors to be in good condition, AFP reported on Sunday. And on Tuesday, Athletics Kenya officials said they had been in touch with the athlete’s manager and race officials who confirmed that Kiprono was out of danger and well. “Athletics Kenya learnt of the unfortunate incident in Medellin half marathon in Colombia on Sunday where Kenyan athlete Joseph Kiprono Kiptum, who was leading, was hit by a car during the race,” AK said in a statement. “We wish to report that the athlete was rushed to the nearest hospital and treated for minor injuries. His manager, Juan Pedro Pineda, confirmed to Athletics Kenya that the athlete was treated and is expected to make a full recovery in a few days. “The athlete was discharged from hospital and will be flying in back into the country today evening,” the statement said. Kiprono ran the race alongside Daniel Muindi, who won the race with a time of one hour, three minutes and 45 seconds. Other Kenyans in the Medellin race included Caroline Kiptoo, who finished second in the women’s marathon (2:39:59), a race won by Ethiopia’s Tigist Teshome (2:39:04). Others were Ronald Kipkoech Korir (2:18:44) and Elias Kemboi Chelimo (2:19:24) who came in second and third, respectively, in the marathon behind Ethiopia’s winner Habtamu Arga Wegi (2:18:44). Besides race winner Muindi, the other Kenyan in the men’s half marathon was Cosmas Kipkoech Rotich who came home fourth in 1:07:08. Athletics Kenya President Jackson Tuwei said they had sought and received a report from the race organizers who had assured that Kiprono was well. “We already have a report from the organizers and his manager. Kiprono is out of danger since he has been discharged from hospital,” Tuwei said. More than 15,000 runners took part in four different running events at the Medellin race meeting in which another competitor collapsed and died after collapsing at the finish line.   Another athlete collapses and dies.