Detectives in Mombasa have revealed shocking details on the alleged abduction of 20-year-old woman Saida Abderehman, who had been reported pregnant. On Monday, Mombasa Urban police boss Jacob Kanake said that Ms Abderehman was not pregnant as claimed by her family. INTERROGATION Speaking to journalists at his office, Mr Kanake said medical reports from Coast Provincial General Hospital (CPGH), where the girl was admitted after being found in Nairobi, showed she cannot carry a pregnancy. It also emerged that Ms Abderehman miscarried in March. “We have confirmed with the doctors that the woman was not pregnant," the officer said. "It is clear that there is something behind all this that we are not being told but will get to know soon." He spoke before the woman was handed to her family and told them she will be summoned for further interrogation. Earlier, the CPGH administration said “the matter is bigger than we think”. POSSIBLE CHARGES Mr Kanake said charges including giving false information to police may be preferred against the woman. He added that her mother Ms Khadija Bwana Omar and her husband Mr Mohammed Abdulkarim will be summoned to give details on the alleged kidnapping. “We used our resources to look for the woman and are happy that we found her alive but this is only the beginning . We want to know who was to benefit from all this." Despite the report from Mr Kanake, the family insisted that Ms Abderehman was pregnant. “I saw her. Her bump was big and no one could doubt that she was pregnant. We are shocked about the turn of events,” her mother told the Nation. MYSTERY Ms Abderehman was abducted on Thursday last week while on her way to board a Malindi-bound matatu at Buxton in Mombasa. She was to connect to Lamu for a midday flight from Malindi International Airport. The Nation saw the flight ticket that she had obtained. The family said Ms Abderehman, who is recuperating at the CPGH, was kidnapped alongside another expectant mother. Ms Abderehman said she was taken by six women. One of her relatives in Nairobi, Mr Faraj Ahmed, who was among those who responded to calls by a good Samaritan after she was found, said: "She said three of the women had the accent of the people of Lamu." Mr Ahmed said Ms Abderehman ran for safety after regaining consciousness and realising she was no longer pregnant. "She told me she escaped from her abductors at around 4am and ran to an unknown place," he said. According to information that the family shared with Muslims for Human Rights (Muhuri) chairman Khelef Khalifa, the woman claimed she was drugged and that the last thing she remembered was the women placing items in her private parts. “She woke up without the foetus in her womb and looked for a mosque," he said. "But what has turned out after the medical check-up is very shocking,” said Mr Khalifa. A relative who spoke to Nation on condition of anonymity said that Ms Abderehman told the family that the other woman may have been killed. “She said they were kept in a dark room in Nairobi and were given slices of bread to share. She said the abductors claimed to have killed the other woman who went missing,” said the relative.   Saida Abderehman is recuperating at Coast Provincial General Hospital (CPGH).