Otuma Ongalo asks whether a journalist should play the role of a mediator in a conflict or remain impartial and cover both sides as objectively as possible. “In the Sharon Otieno versus (Migori) Governor (Okoth) Obado issue, apparently, the Nation reporter was more of mediator than reporter and he seemed to be embedded on one side,” Mr Ongalo says in a message he sent two weeks ago. “Do you think there was breach of professionalism or the reporter merely played his role in accordance with journalism ethics and Nation policy?” Governor Obado was on Monday charged with the murder of Ms Otieno. So, it’s no longer a Sharon Otieno v Governor Obado issue. It’s Republic v Zachary Okoth Obado. While we cannot comment on matters before a court of law because of the sub judice rule, we can review matters that are already in the public domain. DOUBT Apart from Mr Ongalo, many other people, including those commenting on social media, have questioned the conduct and role of Nation correspondent Barrack Oduor in the events leading to the murder of Ms Otieno. Some have even doubted his James Bond-like stunt of jumping out of a fast-moving vehicle. They’ve also questioned his unsuccessful trip to Nairobi, accompanied by Ms Otieno, to meet Governor Obado. They’ve raised concerns about his apparent naivety in dealing with the governor’s personal assistant, “Mr Fix-It” Michael Oyamo, who has also been charged with the murder. It’s apparent from media stories that Mr Odour was doing more than playing the reporter. But, as readers, we don’t know for sure what those other things really were. MEDIATOR The Nation has reported that investigators are treating him as a witness in the murder. The Nation has also described him as “journalist-cum-sympathiser”. But did Mr Oduor breach the Nation editorial policy and guidelines, which is in the public domain? Possibly, as Mr Ongalo suggests, by allowing a conflict of interest by playing the role of mediator. The policy doesn’t explicitly forbid a journalist from participating in a matter he is covering. In the process of reporting, journalists can, without breaching the policy, intervene in an event. In theory, if the journalist is in court sitting next to Ms Sharon Otieno’s mother, there is nothing in the policy to stop him from offering her a tissue to wipe her tears and then writing about it. IMPARTIAL Again, in theory, if the journalist is covering the story of a matatu that plunges into a dam he can dive into the dam and help to rescue victims and then write about it. However, the policy requires the journalist to conduct himself in a manner that protects him from conflicts of interest, real or apparent. “It is important not only to avoid conflicts of interest but also the appearances of such conflicts,” the policy states. “In this connection, all situations capable of creating undue familiarity will be avoided or handled cautiously.” The Code of Conduct for the Practice of Journalism in Kenya’ also requires that a journalist should not engage in activities that may compromise his integrity or independence. INTEGRITY The point about avoiding conflicts of interest is to enable journalists to report the news as impartially as possible. Mr Oduor should not have entered the Sharon Otieno-Okoth Obado conflict in such a way that it now appears there was a conflict of interest. His mission should have been to search for the truth, not to help Sharon Otieno, Governor Obado or himself. The rules of engagement are clear: Reporters should not take part in activities that could compromise their objectivity, limit their independence or endanger their professional integrity. Mr Oduor’s conduct raises questions of objectivity and creates an appearance of conflict of interest. INDEPENDENCE Of course, it’s not always possible to avoid involvement in stories that are complex. The important thing is to ensure that the involvement does not lead to loss of independence, resulting in biased reporting. In the case of the Sharon Otieno-Okoth Obado affair, Mr Oduor should have stood aloof from the conflict. He should have maintained a professional detachment that would have ensured that he was not sucked in by the interests or intrigues of the protagonists. Send your complaints to publiceditor@ke.nationmedia.com. Call or text 0721 989 264  