Several MPs are expected to face the Powers and Privileges Committee of the National Assembly on Wednesday over allegations of bribery during the consideration of the contraband sugar report. The committee chaired by Speaker Justin Muturi is investigating claims that saw the report of the Joint Committee on Trade and Agriculture shot down. MEDIA REPORTS In the invite letter by clerk Michael Sialai, Mr Muturi has asked specific MPs, quoted in sections of the media rebuking colleagues for shooting down the controversial report, to provide information necessary for investigations. The investigations were to kick off on Tuesday for two days but were postponed to allow a special sitting on President Uhuru Kenyatta's reservations on the Finance Bill and the supplementary budget estimates. “The committee notes, with respect, that you have in the recent past been quoted in various media making adverse allegations about the conduct of certain MPs around the time of the debate on the report of the joint committee. You are required to appear before the committee today (Tuesday) at noon,” a letter to one of the MPs reads. The investigations were triggered after a flurry of media reports quoting some MPs implicating their colleagues. Among those summoned are Didmus Barasa (Kimilili) and Onyango K’yoo (Muhoroni), who are members of the powerful privileges committee. They have been exempted from the committee's sittings over the matter. Daily Nation has also established that Dagoreti North MP Simba Arati and Siriasi’s John Waluke will also be questioned. PAST CLAIMS Parliament has been on the spot over corruption claims to alter reports and shield public servants under probe. Claims of MPs receiving between Sh30, 000 and 10,000 to reject the sugar report in totality dominated the media, with Kenyans bashing their leaders for being cheap and selfish despite earning in excess of Sh1.2 million per month in salaries and various allowances. Mr Arati and Dan Maanzo (Makueni), who were among the MPs who investigated illegal sugar importation, were categorical on the matter, accusing their colleagues of being compromised. Mr Muturi has promised a serious probe into the matter and to invite the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) and the Ethics and Anti-corruption commission (EACC) where necessary. The MPs made allegations that reflect widely on the integrity of certain members, committees and the House as a whole, and allude to possible breach of the Code of Conduct by some members of the National Assembly. “The committee, within whose investigative mandate the alleged breach of the code falls, wishes to get to the bottom of this matter,” Mr Muturi said   They are said to ask for bribes of between Sh5,000 and Sh10,000 from traders.