A post-mortem on slain nine-year-old Maribel Kapolon shows that her killers hit her on the head several times, inflicting serious injuries that resulted in her death. Ms Kapolon, the daughter of Githongo Law Courts Senior Resident Magistrate Carol Kemei, was kidnapped on September 6 and her body found dumped in Gitoro Forest 11 days later. HEAD FRACTURES The post-mortem was conducted at Meru Level Five Hospital mortuary on Thursday but the pathologist declined to brief the media. Meru police boss Peter Kimani also declined to give the results but said samples were taken to the government chemist for further analysis. “All I can tell you for now is that several investigating teams from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations are working round the clock to complete investigations,” he said. According to the post-mortem report seen by the Saturday Nation, however, the girl suffered multiple head fractures and facial injuries, meaning she was hit several times on the head. The report also indicates that the body had decomposed, indicating that it had been in the forest for several days. A source who declined to be named said that according to the report, Ms Kapolon was murdered two to three days after she went missing. “It is also good to note that there was no sexual assault,” the source added. FINGER PRINTS Homicide detectives, who are piecing together information to uncover the motive for the crime, on Friday dusted the vehicle believed to have been used to kidnap Ms Kapolon. It is expected that the finger prints will help them identify those who were in the car at the time. The exercise was conducted at Meru Police Station. Two suspects linked to the murder of the girl have been arrested. Benson Kimanthi Marangu, a former warder at Kangeta prison, was arrested on September 8 and is said to be the main suspect. Francis Otudo, from Kayole in Nairobi, was arrested after he called the magistrate’s family demanding a ransom of Sh500,000. This was days after the picture of the missing girl was circulated on social media. On Thursday, a court in Meru allowed investigating officers to continue holding the two at Meru Police Station for 10 more days. Meru Chief Magistrate Hannah Ndun’gu allowed the officers to keep the suspects after the prosecution requested more time to complete investigations Ms Kapolon will be buried on Saturday in Turbo, Uasin Gishu County.   Body of the nine-year-old pupil found in Gitoro Forest.