Hundreds of Mombasa residents were left stranded at Mikindani bus terminus on Friday after matatu operators continued with their strike over lack of parking space in the town centre. Public Service Vehicles were withdrawn from the roads forcing residents to rely on tuk tuks and taxis. RELOCATE Some county officials announced plans to relocate Mikindani bus stop in the CBD to a former bus station at Mwembe Tayari but residents and matatu operators are against the move, saying the place is unsafe due to gangs that hide in the incomplete market. On Wednesday, more than 300 matatu operators protested against the relocation of Mikindani stage which led to the arrest of Mikindani MCA Renson Thoya. Mombasa Urban police boss Eliud Monari told Nation that the MCA was arrested due to the fracas. On Thursday and Friday, residents used taxis and tuk tuks to get to work after most matatus withdrew their services due to lack of parking space. Those working in industries within Changamwe Sub-county opted to walk to work due to the transport crisis. CONDEMN On Wednesday night, more than 50 plain clothes and uniformed police officers armed with teargas, clubs and firearms surrounded the Ukay Mikindani stage arresting touts and matatu operators.  However, police did not arrest any of the stranded passengers who relied on tuk tuks to get to their homes in Mikindani. Matatu Owners Association Coast coordinator Salim Mbarak condemned the county government for ejecting Mikindani route matatus from their stage. Mr Mbarak said the strike was justified because the county government ejected matatus from the stage without engaging them in talks. He asked the county government to call for a meeting with all players to resolve the impasse. Mr Thoya asked the more than 300 matatu operators who were demonstrating to stay put. “I was arrested and later released from central police with four matatu crew while fighting for justice over this stage issue. We are being harassed by the inspectorate and traffic police due to dropping and picking passengers at Ukay stage, we want justice,” he said. Both police and county inspectorate officials have been arresting matatu crew whenever they drop or pick up passengers at the new pick up point. Mr Thoya assured the operators that he will use the County Assembly to ensure the Mikindani route is allocated a permanent stage in the CBD.   Kibarani was virtually impassable as the angry protesters blocked the busy highway.