The long awaited Kenya International 14-Goal Polo Tournament rolls off this weekend at the Nairobi Polo Club with a host of elite players having confirmed participation in this year’s competition. South African hard-hitter and handicap five player Lance Watson is already in the country and ready to guide his Samurai team as they look to defend the title they won last year after beating R.J Polo 7.5-6, Royal Salute 4.5-4 and Samsung 7.5-5. Watson, a lethal poacher who featured for South Africa at the 2017 FIP World Polo Championships last year, has had professional stints in England, Argentina and West Africa. He will be the star in a quartet that includes George McCorkell (handicap 3.5), Mbu Ngugi (2.5) and captain Raphael Nzomo (2.5). “I’m bringing with me an explosive version of fast-paced, attacking polo that has never been seen here before,” warned Watson, who is visiting Kenya for the first time. Samurai captain Nzomo, who convinced Watson to play for Samurai in this year’s tournament, admitted that his team is lucky to have such a well experienced player on their side. “I feel honoured to play alongside Watson. He is ferocious on pitch and I know there will be a lot to learn when he gets hold of his mallet,” he said. But Samurai will have to fend off stiff opposition from team White Cap, who have flown in handicap seven player Chris McKenzie from South Africa. Chris, son of 2016 MVP Buster McKenzie and the highest ranked player in the competition, will saddle alongside Joss Craig (1.5), Kimoi Moi (2) and Archie Voorspuy (3.5) in their bid to win this year’s coveted title. Another revered South African player, Gareth Evans (5) will captain team ‘Four of A Kind’ that has Craig Millar (3.5),Tarquin Gross (3) and Tiva Gross (2.5). Evans is best remembered to have scored five goals, including a penalty at the death last weekend as team Aviation collected a hard fought 8-7 victory over White Cap Lager in the Six-Goal challenge. Samurai will be up against White Cap as Space and Style face Four of a Kind shortly afterwards. Space and Style have beefed up their side with former South African national team striker Buster MacKenzie (4) as well as Jamie Murray (5) who is the best-rated player in Kenya at the moment. The international Polo Tournament is an annual event which marks the climax of the Kenyan polo season. The tournament is usually organized over two weekends, with the first weekend being the 6-goal tournament (for teams with a collective handicap of six), which curtain raises for the mouth-watering 14-goal tournament which is open for elite players whose collective handicap must reach 14. FIXTURES Samurai v White Cap, 2pm Space and Style v Four of a Kind, 3.30pm  