A journalist based in Migori County has recorded a statement with police after he was threatened by unknown people for breaking the story of the abduction of Nation journalist, Barack Oduor, and murdered Rongo University student, Sharon Otieno. Ms Otieno's body was found dumped in Kodera forest in Oyugis, Homa Bay County, on Wednesday. Mr Basil Okoth, a reporter with Radio Lake Victoria, said he started receiving calls and text messages threatening him after he posted, on social media, news of the kidnapping incident. Unknown people allegedly told Mr Okoth to "go slow" on the incident. "Following the abduction of a Nation journalist based in Homa Bay, Mr Barrack Oduor, I'm worried about my life since I was first to break the news at 10.22pm, Monday night after my sister, who is Mr Oduor's wife, informed me of the incident," said Mr Okoth. FIRST TWEET He continued : "Since posting the first tweet about the abduction, I have not been at peace. I shared the link to different social media platforms only for someone to shout my name, "Basil, go slow on this!" as I was about to board a vehicle for home Tuesday evening." On Wednesday, Mr Okoth reported his complaints to Migori police station (OB number 30/5/9/2018) "A colleague called me this morning (Wednesday) warning me against receiving calls from unknown people and disclosing my whereabouts to anybody," added Mr Okoth. Mr Benedict Kigen, the Director of Criminal Investigations in Migori County, said the police will get to the bottom of the matter. Meanwhile, leaders in Migori County have condemned Ms Otieno's gruesome murder. SERIOUS INJURIES Ms Otieno was kidnapped alongside Mr Oduor, who narrowly escaped by jumping from the vehicle they had been abducted in and sustaining serious injuries in the process. The leaders called for speedy investigation into the incident. Migori Woman Representative, Ms Pamela Odhiambo, said: "As a woman and a leader, I condemn this brutal act in the strongest terms possible. As a mother, I know how unbearable the pain is. Losing a second-year student from such a humble background is akin to extinguishing the hopes of an entire family." She added: "On behalf of Sharon's family, and all women and girls in Migori, we demand for justice for Sharon. Those found culpable should face the law."   Ms Otieno was murdered and her body dumped in a thicket in Oyugis,