Gor Mahia were on Sunday crowned the 2018 SportPesa Premier League champions at Moi Stadium, Kisumu, in what was another day of history making for the Kenyan giants. Prior to the coronation, the defending champions were held to a 2-2 draw by a hard-fighting Mathare United at the same venue in their penultimate match of the 2018 season. Rwandese import Jacques Tuyisenge and Humphrey Mieno were on target for Gor while Mathare's goals were scored by substitute Klinsman Omulanga and Cliff Nyakeya. Like the norm with Gor's supporters, they turned in their numbers with all kinds of paraphernalia, painting the Lake side city green before converging at the stadium, to witness their team's coronation for the 17th time. K'Ogalo had successfully defended the title with six games to go, and Sunday's draw takes their points tally to 72. The club's patron, former Prime Minister Raila Odinga was the chief guest at the event, with other dignitaries present being Gor's chairman Ambrose Rachier and Kisumu Deputy Governor Mathews Owili. And when skipper Harun Shakava lifted the trophy aloft after receiving it from Odinga, the jubilant fans responded with a rapturous roar, paying tribute to the Dylan Kerr-led team after another year of unmatched dominance. Looking to put a smile on their supporters faces after their recent poor run, K'Ogalo begun the encounter strong, taking a deserved lead after nine minutes through Tuyisenge. The Rwandan easily slotted the ball into the back of the net with a low drive to the left of the goal post, after finding himself with Mathare's goalkeeper Job Ochieng as the only man to beat. The forward was on his way to adding a second a few minutes later but he flagged offside, before Mathare threatened to cancel the host's lead from the right wing. Gor Mahia were on Sunday crowned the 2018 SportPesa Premier League champions at Moi Stadium, Kisumu, in what was another day of history making for the Kenyan giants. Prior to the coronation, the defending champions were held to a 2-2 draw by a hard-fighting Mathare United at the same venue in their penultimate match of the 2018 season. Rwandese import Jacques Tuyisenge and Humphrey Mieno were on target for Gor while Mathare's goals were scored by substitute Klinsman Omulanga and Cliff Nyakeya. Like the norm with Gor's supporters, they turned in their numbers with all kinds of paraphernalia, painting the Lake side city green before converging at the stadium, to witness their team's coronation for the 17th time. K'Ogalo had successfully defended the title with six games to go, and Sunday's draw takes their points tally to 72. The club's patron, former Prime Minister Raila Odinga was the chief guest at the event, with other dignitaries present being Gor's chairman Ambrose Rachier and Kisumu Deputy Governor Mathews Owili. And when skipper Harun Shakava lifted the trophy aloft after receiving it from Odinga, the jubilant fans responded with a rapturous roar, paying tribute to the Dylan Kerr-led team after another year of unmatched dominance. Looking to put a smile on their supporters faces after their recent poor run, K'Ogalo begun the encounter strong, taking a deserved lead after nine minutes through Tuyisenge. The Rwandan easily slotted the ball into the back of the net with a low drive to the left of the goal post, after finding himself with Mathare's goalkeeper Job Ochieng as the only man to beat. The forward was on his way to adding a second a few minutes later but he flagged offside, before Mathare threatened to cancel the host's lead from the right wing. Gor Mahia were on Sunday crowned the 2018 SportPesa Premier League champions at Moi Stadium, Kisumu, in what was another day of history making for the Kenyan giants. Prior to the coronation, the defending champions were held to a 2-2 draw by a hard-fighting Mathare United at the same venue in their penultimate match of the 2018 season. Rwandese import Jacques Tuyisenge and Humphrey Mieno were on target for Gor while Mathare's goals were scored by substitute Klinsman Omulanga and Cliff Nyakeya. Like the norm with Gor's supporters, they turned in their numbers with all kinds of paraphernalia, painting the Lake side city green before converging at the stadium, to witness their team's coronation for the 17th time. K'Ogalo had successfully defended the title with six games to go, and Sunday's draw takes their points tally to 72. The club's patron, former Prime Minister Raila Odinga was the chief guest at the event, with other dignitaries present being Gor's chairman Ambrose Rachier and Kisumu Deputy Governor Mathews Owili. And when skipper Harun Shakava lifted the trophy aloft after receiving it from Odinga, the jubilant fans responded with a rapturous roar, paying tribute to the Dylan Kerr-led team after another year of unmatched dominance. Looking to put a smile on their supporters faces after their recent poor run, K'Ogalo begun the encounter strong, taking a deserved lead after nine minutes through Tuyisenge. The Rwandan easily slotted the ball into the back of the net with a low drive to the left of the goal post, after finding himself with Mathare's goalkeeper Job Ochieng as the only man to beat. The forward was on his way to adding a second a few minutes later but he flagged offside, before Mathare threatened to cancel the host's lead from the right wing.