The National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) has cautioned Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina to stop issuing utterances bordering on incitement. At the same time the NCIC, in a statement issued in Nakuru town on Thursday, said the utterances made on Tuesday by the senator were out to incite the communities in the clash-torn region. In a letter signed by the commission's Secretary Hassan Mohammed, NCIC said the senator's utterances are likely to affect the harmonious coexistence of communities living in the Mau complex. MAU COMPLEX "It has come to the attention of the commission that Mr Ledama ole Kina uttered words that are likely to affect harmonious and peaceful coexistence among communities living around the Mau complex", said the statement. The statement, directly quoting the utterances by the senator, further specified that the words have the potential to cause ethnic hatred between two communities living in the region. The commission has ordered the senator to stop issuing such utterances with immediate effect. "Failure to comply with the notice is an offence as provided for under Section 63(c) of the National Cohesion and Integration Act," read the letter. SUSPECTS CHARGED Meanwhile, nine people linked to the skirmish that rocked Olpusimoru Ward in Narok North over the past one week may be jailed for seven years if found guilty of perpetrating the violence. The suspects – Robert Korir Weldon Ronoh Nicholas Kimutai, Patrick Korir, Enock Ronoh, Amos Ronoh, Cosmas Mutai, Bernard Kemboi and Ronald Kiprono – appeared before Narok Principal Magistrate Titus Gesora on Thursday. WEAPONS The suspects were found with five bows, 26 arrows, one spear and a panga which it is believed they used in the ongoing clashes. Prosecutor David Mwangi told the court that the suspects were arrested while in a car which was used to ferry the weapons. They denied the charges. The suspects were released on a Sh100,000 bond with surety or Sh75,000 cash bail each. The case will be heard on November 13 but the suspects will report to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations once every moth until the case is heard and determined.   Matiang'i wants more arrests, says there are people supporting the violence.