The black cast of Black Panther, that included Kenyan actress Lupita Nyong’o, want to win “Best Picture” and not “Popular Film” award in the Oscars 2019 Awards. Popular Film Award is a new category which was introduced recently to fete superhero kind of movies. Over the years, the Academy hasn’t been awarding superhero movies. However, following the success of several of this genre of movies like Black Panther that grossed over $1.3 billion worldwide, A Star is Born, and Avengers: Infinity War, The Academy thought it wise to introduce a new category to honour such films. The move has been heavily criticised by various quarters including the Black Panther team. According to its lead actor Chadwick Boseman (T’challa) the movie will campaign for the best picture award in the 91st edition of the Awards, which is nine months away. “We don’t know what it is, so I don’t know whether to be happy about it or not. What I can say is that there is no campaign for popular film. If there’s a campaign, it’s for the best picture,” Boseman was quoted by Hollywood Reporter.    Pine Creek boss: Mankind our best hope for a Grammy win After signing internet sensation and talented Amani, Pine Creek Records recently announced the signing of musical duo Mankind, made up of The Cloak and Mane. Pine Creek hopes that despite Mankind being a new group, they will last for years to come despite the worrying trend of Kenyan bands splitting up after a few years of working together “Having been in the music industry long enough, managing great talents such as Mr Lenny, and understanding the Kenyan musical dynamics, I was first sceptical of signing Mankind. With time, I was convinced by their unique sound. They rely on each other’s strengths and have chemistry like no other. They are the future,” said Pine Creek CEO, Peter Nduati. Mankind, who initially had a distribution deal with Sony Music, are an alternative-music duo from Nairobi whose music fuses a lot of different genres including Jazz, classical and Urban pop. The group has been in the music industry since 2014. According to Nduati, Mankind is the next big thing in Kenya. “If we will ever win a Grammy then it will come from this group. I say that without fear of contradiction,” he added.    Day Ofweneke came through for Abel Mutua Even though his marriage failed, comedian Dr Ofweneke played a big role in ensuring actor and TV content producer Abel Mutua’s wedding was a success. Abel married the love of his life three years ago in a colourful wedding. He has recently been appreciating people who went out of their way to support him in various times of need and detailed how the comedian saved his wedding. He had run out of money three days to his wedding, having planned it hurriedly in less than a month and hadn’t yet settled for a host of the event. He reached out to Dr Ofweneke, explaining his situation and hoping he would help despite the two not being good friends at that time. The two creatives had only formally met three times then. Mutua said he was left in shock when Dr Ofweneke agreed to emcee at his wedding for free. “I pick up the phone and call this gentleman... I tell him my story and without thinking he tells me, “Bro! Harusi lazima ifanyike.” I couldn’t believe it,” Mutua recently posted.    Nameless: I want a boy now Legendary singer Nameless, who recently celebrated his 13th marriage anniversary with his wife and gospel musician Wahu Kagwi, is ready to be a father again. The singers have been an item for 21 years, since they started seeing each other during their days of campus life at University of Nairobi, and are blessed with two daughters -- Tumiso and Nyakio. However, Nameless, who released an appreciation song to his wife on the day of the anniversary, now wants a third child; preferably a boy this time. “Siwezi mind a boy now that I have two girls, but we are still in discussions,” the singer was quoted when asked about the matter. The admired couple is considered to be among one of the few that have maintained their limelight without getting involved in scandals, something that they don’t take for granted. “We know we have our own battles and we are not even perfect, but a lot of people are inspired by our marriage so we have to be the best,” he added.    Emmy: I am in no hurry to make babies Gospel singer Emmy Kosgei has revealed that she is not rushing to have children with her 60-year-old Nigerian husband, Bishop Anselm Madubuko. Emmy, who is 22 years younger than her husband, married the man of the cloth five years ago. However, despite the usual pressure imposed on married couples to have children, Emmy has insisted that she is past that. The gospel singer says she did not get married to have children and went on to state that she is not in a rush to make babies. “Relationships are about unions and destinies. If you are attached to the wrong person, it can affect your destiny permanently,” she says in this month’s issue of Parents magazine. She is not ready to have a child at the moment because her hands are currently full but the plans are there for the future. While she waits for that day, Emmy plays a loving stepmother to Madubuko’s three children with whom he had with his late wife. The singer says of them, “The children respect me and call me mum. I don’t take it for granted.”   His ex-wife Nicah accused Ofweneke of physical abuse while he accused her of infidelity.