Kenyans online have been angered by the utterances of Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong in an NTV exposé that aired on Sunday night. In the expose,Jab of Misery, NTV covered the plight of children of Kakapel Location, Teso North sub-County, who were affected by a malaria jab in July 2015. PARALYSIS Most of the victims of the botched immunisation are suffering from paralysis of lower limbs. Each of the 28 children, according to medical records, developed a condition called sciatic neuritis after they were directly injected on their sciatic nerves. But in the interview, Mr Ojaamong termed their plight as “an allegation” even though it is clear that the children can hardly walk and sleep due to pain. The minors have deformities ranging from paralysis of the leg to foot drop. “That is an allegation. Let us emphasise it is an allegation,” he said in the interview. He defended the nurse accused of administering the jab, whom he said is still in employment and may never be fired anytime soon. “The issue was well publicised and professional bodies came to investigate from the United Nations, national government and NGOs. To date as we speak none of these organisations have submitted reports indicating that it is this particular nurse who did it, and which drug she used on the kids,” he said. REACTIONS “I want to confirm to the whole world that the lady is still working because we cannot punish her on the basis of allegations. Even if the courts brought their rulings or orders it will be very difficult to respect them. On what basis did the courts issue the orders?” Moments after the interview aired, Kenyans on Twitter and Facebook expressed their displeasure with what they termed as Ojaamong’s “insensitive” remarks. “The… arrogance of some 'Leaders' is just unmatched. Busia Governor Ojaamong’ can't see with his own eyes that these 28 kids are paralysed, which is a living and walking proof? What other proof and investigation does he need 3yrs down the line, surely?” tweeted Retired Comrade. Mwaurah Think Inc concurred with him: “Am (I’m) not surprised by Ojaamong's arrogance. He represents a majority of leaders in Kenya.” On his part, Wallace Minjire, said the Sh38 million that the court ordered the county government to pay the affected families in December 2017 was not enough. “The poor children are suffering, most of them have permanent disabilities … the judge should actually have given more to cater of their lives,” he said. The children’s story is that of pain and hopelessness. In 2015, they were taken to The Nairobi Hospital for specialised treatment after their suffering was brought to the attention of the government. SH 38 MILLION The Busia County government was then supposed to support them with physiotherapy, electrical muscle stimulation, and regular check-ups as recommended by doctors. But the parents say this promise fell through. “We were promised that doctors from Nairobi Hospital will be coming to check on the children and they only came twice,” Mrs Pamela Okdebe, mother of 11 year-old Zakayo Onyepidi whose right leg was paralysed by the jab, said. “We do not know how to deal with all this pain, the children are suffering.” And while some families wish to take their children for specialised medication, they do not have money. Many were banking on the Sh38-million award but nine months later, they are still waiting for the compensation. The have held demonstrations outside Mr Ojaamong’s office in Busia town without much success. “Even the governor cannot come out and have a look at the situation of these children,” said Mr Emmanuel Omunya, father of nine-year-old Kate Atenge, whose left leg is paralysed. But Mr Ojaamong blamed the media and lawyers for “misleading” the families. “If they could be in touch with the governor and the county government, if they had good intentions, other than compensation, these are our residents they are entitled to all the services that the county government can provide, physiotherapy and all those things”. But parents say they are not served well at the county hospitals they have visited. ANOTHER SUIT “We are always turned away with painkillers, health personnel advise that the children require advanced healthcare equipment which is not available here,” said Ms Okdebe. Lawyer Oyugi Ombui, who represented the children in court, said Mr Ojaamong and his leadership were not happy with the ruling. “When they saw our demand as per the judgement, they have made a proposal for the sum to be reduced by 50 per cent, which we found slightly abnormal…,” he said. “They were threatening us that if we do not accept that a half they may even take 20 years to compensate these people. We are in the process of filing further proceedings known as judicial review for the purpose of obtaining orders from High Court so that we can be able to compel the county government to compensate them.” He claimed the county government was denying the affected their right to medical care. “The county government is being vindictive over no basis. As we know our constitution is very clear that health is now a devolved function. As indicated in their medical reports, these children need medication for the rest of their lives. They have been permanently injured, most of them, so they need to be taken care of so for the county government...” As the dispute drags on, the children have already outgrown their special shoes and their movement is affected. Going to school is also a struggle and, for some of them, hearing and sight have been impaired.   The parents said they were concerned the compensation process was taking too long.