Former Embu Senator Lenny Kivuti has denied claims by Governor Martin Wambora that they have been holding meetings with the intention of calling a 'ceasefire' after the heated gubernatorial election in 2017. He said Mr Wambora had neither called him for a truce nor met in Deputy President William Ruto’s presence to discuss Embu politics. MISLEADING Speaking at his Kanyuambora home where he met about 500 supporters from 20 wards, Mr Kivuti accused the governor of misleading residents by claiming that they had fruitful engagements that would culminate in a handshake. He, however, reiterated that he was open to talks that could help unite the county, but demanded that such forums be mutual and all parties invited. Mr Wambora had told a church gathering that he had invited county leaders for a meeting slated for the last week of September, with an aim of reconciling with his arch rival Lenny Kivuti. “There have been rumours to the effect that there is a planned handshake between me and Wambora. I have not received any call from Wambora to invite me to the alleged meetings that they purport to be having with the leaders of Embu County," the former senator said. He however admitted bumping into the governor at a hotel owned by Mr Ruto but insisted that a possibility of a truce between them was never discussed. PETITION “I saw him at the DP’s hotel but we did not talk because I had other business and not Embu matters.  The DP is my friend and if you see me in his office or hotel, it is not only about Embu issues. We cannot sit somewhere just the three of us and talk about a handshake,” said Mr Kivuti. The former legislator said he would not bow to pressure to withdraw an election petition he has filed at the Supreme Court challenging Mr Wambora’s win. He said he filed the case in a bid to pursue justice for his supporters, and urged Mr Wambora not to use the court case as a scapegoat for failing to work. “The matter at Supreme Court is not a Lenny Kivuti case. After the mess that was found during the petition, I invited him (Wambora) to come and he refused and went to the Court of Appeal,” said Mr Kivuti.   Kivuti dissatisfied with judgment overturning High Court decision nullifying Wambora's win.