Handicap 5 player Gareth Evans on Sunday steered his team Afrika Aviation to victory as the curtains came down on the Kenya International Polo six-goals tournament that was staged at the Nairobi Polo Club. Gareth accounted for six goals as Afrika Aviation overcame White Cup Lager by a narrow 8-7 score line in the tightly contested and highly entertaining final. Georgina Millar (0) and Aisha Gross (0.5) scored the other two goals as the aviators felled the star-studded White Cup Lager team that was captained by Kenya's highest ranked player Jamie Murray (5). This was the highest scoring game in the entire six-goals tournament that rolled off on Friday, and provided a worthy final for the spectators who turned up to watch the early afternoon showdown. "It was great team work and combined efforts that did it for us today. We played very well and I feel like we've set the bar so high for the teams taking part in next weekend's tournament which I hope we shall also win. "I was privileged to have been given very good ponies by my parents. The horses were quite fast and I believe that contributed to our success today," said Aviation's Georgina Millar during the trophy presentation ceremony. The victory carried special meaning for Aviation's Nick Millar, who was in team Sandstorms that won the tournament last year after edging out RJ Polo in the final. Team Samurai, who were the losing finalists in last year's competition, settled for the Plate after convincingly beating White Cup Lite 6-2.5. Samurai was comprised of South African international Brad McGibbon (4), Mbu Ngugi (2.5), Tony Sugden (1) and teenage sensation Jadini Nzomo (-1). The Most Valuable Player's accolade went to Manyatta-based lady Izzy Parsons, who dazzled the judges' committee with her strong backhand. Parsons played for Governor's Camp, who finished third in the six-goals category after losing 7-7.5 to White Cup Lager on Saturday. The international Polo Tournament is an annual event which marks the climax of the Kenyan polo season. The six-goals tournament, which is usually open to teams with a collective handicap of six, will now pave way for the high stakes14-goal tournament next weekend. The 14-goal tournament incorporates the most elite players from the region, whose collective handicap must reach 14.  