“I need three chickens,” the text message read. “And another five for my friend.” At first, I assumed this message was from Judy who had introduced her friend Millie to my poultry products. Judy had placed an order the day before and requested if I could also deliver to her friend who lives in the same neighbourhood. Upon inquiry, I learnt that I was instead talking to one Dorothy and the mystery deepened. You see, over the last three years, I’ve learnt that no business can survive without customers and there’s no alternative other than to build long-lasting relationships with one loyal client. As such, instead of complaining about lack of market outlets for my products and infiltration by middlemen, I nurture the few that I have already. To me, “A customer who trusts you isn’t one customer; he or she is a potential source of enthusiastic recommendations to other customers.” (Seeds of Gold, July 14). I’ve learnt to value each customer even as I work to conquer the mass market because when it comes to references, it’s certainly a small world as I realised a week ago. “Can you please deliver the chicken meat to Nairobi Hospital or in Westlands?” Dorothy asked. I asked her whether she had a fridge in the office. When she told me she would be leaving her office at 4pm, I figured that would work. TRANSPORT IN COOLER BOXES As a policy, I transport meat in cooler boxes filled with ice and advise the customer to ensure that it’s consumed or refrigerated within two to three hours. “I’ve been sent by Dorothy to deliver chicken,” I told the receptionist. She ushered me into the office and guess who I find? Dr Mwikali. She is the doctor who delivered my first two children, Baraka and Amani. Of course, she was excited to meet them.“I am happy to see doctors getting into farming,” she said. “We need to change the notion that farming is for poor rural folks.” Up to this point, I was still not sure how Dorothy got my contacts and I decided to ask Dr Mwikali. The good doctor intimated that she’s Jackie’s cousin. Now, I know many Jackie’s so who was she? Later, when I spoke to Dorothy, she confessed this to me, “Actually, I attended your wedding!” I thought she was pulling my legs but then she let the cat out of the bag with this statement, “I knew you through Rebs.” Okay, I finally got it. Jackie introduced Dorothy and Dr Mwikali to my chicken meat at her house. Jackie is my former workmate and a long time loyal customer (if you’re a regular, you’ll recall the incident when Jackie had complained that the eggs I sold her had gone bad and I had to replace for free — see What can shorten your eggs’ shelf-life available online). Dorothy is Dr Mwikali’s daughter. Dorothy and Rebs went to the same school from primary to secondary and later studied together in the UK at university. Rebs happens to be my sister-in-law.   The most-effective measure of preventing cannibalism gives the birds access to pasture and locomotion