Gor Mahia was made to make history. Just as a brush up, Gor is the only team I know of in the world that won the league title the same year it was formed. Okay, maybe there are others in places like Kazakhstan or Mongolia but who can point out the latter’s capital Ulaanbaatar on a map? Second, Gor Mahia was the first team to win the local top-tier football league unbeaten in 1976. The same year, Gor Mahia’s top marksman, a policeman going by the name of Maurice ‘Sonyi’ Ochieng, scored a record 42 goals, a feat no player is yet to match in our ecks of the woods. Come November, Gor Mahia, in its history-making quest, will be the first team from our part of the world to play in England when our sponsors SportPesa will pair us against Everton. Not only Everton but if coach Dylan Kerr’s plans are to materialise, we might also show some other English teams the stuff Gor Mahia is made of. In an interview with this newspaper earlier in the week, Gor Mahia coach said: We may get one, or possibly two other friendly matches. I want to offer these players a lifetime opportunity of playing in England. From there, you just never know. So far, Bolton Wanderers, Rangers, Sheffield United, Sheffield Wednesday, Hull City, Reading and Glasgow Rangers are interested (in our tour) and will be sending their scouts to watch the game. I am also going to give these players a tour of their lives. I plan to take them on a tour of Buckingham Palace, Tower Bridge and other areas around London. I have never doubted our players to deliver on the big stage, after all donning the coveted green jersey is not for the lily-livered nor the rubber-kneed. My appeal to the K’Ogalo hit squad is that they better give their all. I am sure at the end of the day, it will cost us because a number of our players might just get signed up by one of the English sides. It will be a loss for us but a big boost for the players. If handled well, such moves might just get us some much-needed cash. Talking of cash, I hope those in charge will move with haste and sort out the small problem of unpaid amounts the players are demanding. I don’t have the full picture but what I know is that the team must be paid if we are to expect good performance from every member of the team. The boys have delivered and the onus is on my friends chairman Ambrose Rachier and treasurer Sally Bolo to look for money and pay up. That is the least we can do for the players after playing their hearts out for our mighty team. In the same breath, I am yet to hear of the expected elaborate plans to have us celebrate our 50th birthday. As I noted in an earlier article, it is not everyday that one turns 50 and we must yell from the top of every mountain that we are half a century old and still unbeatable.  