Kenya’s top crime buster George Kinoti says he will crack the murder case of Sharon Otieno in three days. The director of criminal investigations on Wednesday said he had dispatched a special team of homicide detectives to Homa Bay to investigate the murder. TRACE The detectives will also look into the attempted murder of Nation reporter Barrack Oduor, who escaped death narrowly. The team, Mr Kinoti said, will trace the events that led to the murder of the second-year Rongo University student whose body was found in Kodera Forest in the wee hours of Wednesday. Already, key statements have been taken from some of the witnesses and some of the suspects are staring at arrest. "The investigators are waiting for postmortem and DNA tests and we hope to get to the bottom of all this. Actually, we are at the tail-end,” Mr Kinoti told the Nation on phone. "We cannot name the main suspect as at now but rest assured that no one will be spared.” His statement came as two woman representatives called on him to immediately bring to book those who killed Sharon. Dr Pamela Odhiambo (Migori) and Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay) condemned the murder, saying nobody should be spared in the investigations. POLITICIANS Ms Wanga said all senior politicians from Migori have been linked to the murder should be questioned. "This should be the true test of DCI. Whether it's a governor or MP involved nobody should be spared," Ms Wanga said. She urged young girls in colleges and universities to focus on their studies. Dr Odhiambo said it is shameful that senior politicians in Migori have been mentioned in the death of the young woman. Sharon and Mr Oduor were kidnapped moments after being lured out of Graca Hotel in Rongo around 7.35pm by Governor Okoth Obado’s Personal Assistant Michael Oyamo. Mr Oyamo was arrested in Uriri on Tuesday and taken to Homa Bay for questioning over the incident that left Mr Oduor seriously injured. "We are currently struggling to educate the girl child and it is sad that we have lost a second-year student," Dr Odhiambo said at a press conference at Parliament Buildings in Nairobi. She also appealed to mothers to be close to their daughters and ensure that they are safe all the time. Dr Odhiambo said journalists should be protected in the course of their duties.   Kiraithe says attackers of the varsity student and NMG staff will be brought to book.