Migori Governor Okoth Obado has denied the murder of his pregnant girlfriend Sharon Otieno in Homa Bay. Mr Obado denied the charge when he appeared before the High Court in Milimani, Nairobi, on Monday morning. Appearing alone in the dock, Mr Obado who was represented by four lawyers, denied that he and others not before court murdered Ms Otieno between September 3 and 4 at Owade area in Rachuonyo. He was sent to the prison after his lawyers lost a bid to have him detained at the Gigiri Police Station where he spent the weekend. The governor will be held pending hearing of his bond request, which will be argued on Tuesday at 2pm.   Defence lawyers, led by Nicholas Ombija and Cliff Ombeta, want him freed on bond so that he can continue with his gubernatorial job. Mr Ombija also requested for an early hearing date because the governor was arrested on Friday. But the prosecution, led by Assistant Director of Public Prosecutions Jacob Ondari and Tom Imbali, opposed the bail application and applied to have Mr Obado remanded until Wednesday.   Mr Ondari told Justice Jessie Lesiit that another matter related to the case is coming up on Wednesday and they plan to consolidate the two cases. During his appearance, which was preceded by the arrest of Mr Obado's bodyguard in a hotel adjacent to Milimani Law Courts, the governor appeared easy before the judge entered the courtroom. He chatted and even laughed with his lawyers but became pensive when he was asked to take a plea. Ms Otieno's mother, Auma, attended the session.   The woman appeared weak and lost in thoughts as the court proceedings dragged on. At one point, she had to be supported by relatives due to her weakness and grief. Minutes to the the start of the proceedings, police arrested the governor's bodyguard. The officer identified as John Chacha had just entered the hotel when officers in plainclothes pounced him. Reports indicate Mr Chacha was arrested on orders of the Ethics of Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC), which claims he forged academic papers to secure police job in 2006.   Oyamo reported to the police that he had been kidnapped while meeting Sharon and Barack.