Several readers reacted to the public editor’s article, The battle to keep Americanisms from creeping into our media (Daily Nation, September 14, 2018), which argued that readers expected uniformity and consistency in the way in which we use the English language. Here are some of the views. Time to revise policy on English “I think you’re fighting a losing battle. Even your date format is American. “I think it’s time for you to revise your policy on what English to use. And, by the way, I don’t think many British people would recognise the English used in our local dailies as British English. “Moreover, even the British themselves have already fallen for American English! “American English controls the world’s media. You fight it, you lose.” — Tom. The purpose of language is to communicate While agreeing with the Nation Stylebook requirement for journalists to use British English and avoid Americanism for the sake of uniformity, a reader who likes to go by initials IP says: “(The) purpose of language is, of course, to communicate. “Languages constantly evolve and are commonly spoken and written in different dialects. “As one ages, one more easily appreciates that being accommodating and understanding helps communication in diverse, multicultural and socially stratified contexts.” He says NMG journalists are struggling to keep Americanisms from creeping into their stories because of the American global hegemony, particularly in popular culture. “That the British seem to more readily adopt Americanisms than the other way around cannot be assuring to the English traditionalists among us.” READERS He wonders whether the claim that readers expect consistency in the meaning of words and the way words are spelt is accurate. “What of readers that are comfortable with the different dialects of English?” he asks. “What of readers that dwell on the underlying report or story and find such concerns as you mention fussy? “An ever-increasing number of readers are falling into the latter category because of the abundance of information online that is forcing them to be less particular about such details as you point out.” He argues that, though we had a common colonial master, Americans are more progressive about their independence from the British with their own variety of English than we have been. * * * On writing for the ‘Nation’ Ambrose Munene wonders what it takes to become a writer for the Daily Nation. “Are there any benefits? Anything else I ought to know?” he asks. The editor responds: “You are at liberty to contribute articles to any of our platforms, including the ‘Daily Nation’ (mailbox, Cutting Edge and op-ed sections). “The length of the article should range from 300 to 900 words, depending on the section, with your name, occupation/profession, county/country where you are writing from and preferred email address for the purpose of feedback from readers. “Every section has a dedicated email address where articles may be sent. “Your articles will be considered for publication at the editor’s discretion. “Please note, however, that we do not pay for unsolicited material; we only pay contracted contributors.” Email the public editor at publiceditor@ke.nationmedia.com or text 0721 989 264  