Western Stima host rivals Coast Stima in a vital National Super League match at the Moi Stadium in Kisumu on Friday knowing that a win will all but assure them a slot in next season’s SportPesa Premier League. The Paul Ogai-coached side top the 19-team log on 73 points with three rounds left, and a win against the Coastal outfit will take their points tally to 76, a figure only second-placed Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) can reach with wins in their remaining four games. Third-placed Nairobi Stima, who are on 63 points from 32 matches, can accumulate a maximum of 75 points if they win all their remaining four games. A top two finish guarantees them a direct ticket to the top tier with only the top two finishers gaining direct promotion. “Our target is qualifying to the Premier League and we are calm, taking each game as a final until we hit the objective,” said Ogai. Also on Friday, KCB will be at Camp Toyoyo grounds to entertain Green Commandoes, who gave their third walkover this term last weekend, after failing to book a venue for their clash against Western Stima. The bankers, coached by their former player Elvis Ayany, need 10 points in the remaining four games to seal their return to the top flight after a three-year hiatus. Ushuru, who blew their chances with a recent bad run, face Nakuru-based St. Joseph Youth in the first match at Camp Toyoyo grounds. Six matches will be staged on Saturday across the country with relegation-threatened Migori Youth, Golden Field Evangelism (GFE) and Nakuru AllStars all in action against Kibera Black Stars, Modern Coast Rangers and Talanta respectively. FIXTURES Friday Ushuru v St Joseph Youth (Camp Toyoyo grounds, 2pm) KCB v Green Commandoes (Camp Toyoyo grounds, 4.15pm) Western Stima v Coast Stima (Moi stadium, 3pm) Saturday Nakuru AllStars v Talanta (Afraha stadium, 11am) Administration Police v Nairobi Stima (Camp Toyoyo grounds, 11am) Kenya Police v City Stars (Karuturi grounds, 1pm) Migori Youth v Kibera Black Stars (Awendo Green Stadium, 3pm) Modern Coast Rangers v GFE (Mbaraki Sports club, 3pm) Kisumu AllStars v Kangemi AllStars (Moi stadium, Kisumu, 3pm)  