Kenya's John Karichu dropped to second place after dropping six shots as Uganda's Ronald Otile, seeking his third title, moved to the top of the leader board in day three of this year's Uganda Open at the par 71 Entebbe Golf Club course on Friday. The Limuru Country Club-based Karichu, who led in day two after a fine round of 68, bogeyed the first, second and fourth holes in the first nine, while the back nine was as well as tough one for the former Golfer of The Year title winner. He picked up three more bogeys on the 10th, 15th, and 16th for a third round five over par 76, which dropped him to second place on one over par 214 and three shots off the leader, as the field of 110 leading amateurs in East Africa go to the fourth and final round of the Castle Lite Uganda Open championship on Saturday. Of the other leading Kenyans, day one leader Edwin Mudanyi dropped further down to tie fifth with Uganda's Joseph Cwinyaai on 218 after posting his second straight 76 in the third round, which appeared to have been tough as only two players were able to play under par. Mudanyi picked two double bogeys on the third and 18th after dropping more shots on the first, fifth and ninth with only two birdies coming on the seventh and 14th. Finishing the third day in seventh place was Samuel Njoroge, who carded 75 for 219, while youngster Mutahi Kibugu was on 221 after a 76. Otile, who won the title in 2015 and 2016, managed to pick up five birdies on the first, eighth, 13th, 14th and 18th, but bogeyed an equal number of shots to level the tough course, which is East Afriica's oldest course, for two under par 211 and is destined for victory unless Karichu or third placed Herman Mutebi produce five under or better each in the fourth round, and hope that the South Africa-based Otile will bring worse than level par. It was however a fine day for Uganda's Joel Basalaine, who produced an impressive four under par 67 with four birdies to position himself in an attacking position, though he made a slow start in the early rounds. Meanwhile, professionals from different parts of Africa are due in Entebbe this weekend ready for the professional version of the Open, where a total of $50,000 (about Sh5 million) will be at stake this year. Kenya, had by Friday listed 21 players for the event whose entries close on Saturday.  