Q. My dad owns a boutique shop in Kericho town with my mum being the shop's manager. Recently, I discovered that my mum, who earns a salary from the shop has been stealing from my dad. I have warned her twice but she just changes the tactics. From an HR perspective, should I report this to my dad. Note that they don't co - own the business.  Parents ought to be good role models to their children and should strive to never put them in a situation where they have to deal with a challenge such as this. Stealing from anyone is wrong, but stealing from your own spouse is equal to stealing from yourself. For something like this to happen and continue despite your warning, I am convinced it is sign of deeper issues that your parents are dealing with, and must addressed. It is a pity that your mother does not see the income she is generating as her own. Whether this is arising to meet family needs, your mother is deceitful and needs to be stopped, and since she is has not heeded your advice, turning a deaf ear will only make things worse. The right thing to do is speak up, like you would in any other situation if you witnessed fraud or other misconduct. Your father may not be that ignorant as you assume, you would be surprised that he is aware the books are not balancing and has been waiting for the right opportunity to confront his suspicions. I know some people may advise that this is a matter between your parents and that you should leave it to resolve itself. But this is a work situation, you have an unfaithful colleague who unless is cautioned and stopped may end up in a worse situation. I am sure you have heard of the statement ‘do unto other as you would like them to do to you’. I would like you to think about how you would feel if tables were turned. If this wounds you, you must tell. One approach you may use would be to have a candid conversation with your mother and understand why she is acting this way. Could it be there are responsibilities that your father maybe be neglecting and she is diverting the money for greater good of the family? If such were the case it would be easier to bring the matter up for discussion between the two and most likely it may address other underlying issues in this marriage. I felt this question was a bit out of my scope and spoke to a couple just to check if my thinking is right. They both said without hesitation they would expect their son to tell, and would be deeply offended if he kept such a situation from them. Please speak up, you may save your mother from a jail sentence.  *** Do you have a question? Send it to our team: mynetwork@ke.nationmedia.com   It is a pity that your mother does not see the income she is generating as her own.