Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho says his relationship with President Uhuru Kenyatta is now at its best and that they often talk. The former President Kenyatta’s fierce critic assured hundreds of residents that his ‘war’ with the Head of State is over. EXUDED CONFIDENCE He exuded confidence in the dalliance insisting "things will change due to the handshake" between his Orange Democratic Party leader Raila Odinga and the Head of State. Their wars started in 2016, over directive from the national government asking Likoni residents in the controversial Waitiki land to pay Sh182,000 in land rates to the national government which Mr Joho opposed. The friction later escalated in 2017 when police stopped Mr Joho from attending a presidential function in Mtongwe before security personnel cordoned off his residence. President Kenyatta vowed to teach Mr Joho a lesson, accusing the county boss of interfering with his work. The Jubilee boss accused the ODM deputy party leader of failing to develop Mombasa and asked him to account for Sh40 billion given to the county as equitable share. OLD PROJECTS The governor criticised President Kenyatta for launching old projects in Mombasa. He also accused him of sabotaging the coastal county’s economy by transfer of port operations from the region. But yesterday, Mr Joho who reached a truce with President Kenyatta in June said: “Things will now change because of the handshake. Nowadays we talk closely with President Kenyatta; before things were different,” Mr Joho said. Mr Joho also held talks with President Kenyatta when he made an unannounced two weeks visit to the Coast in July and agreed on various issues to spur Mombasa's growth including relocation of Kibarani dumpsite. Speaking during the launch of Devolution Forum to showcase the strides his devolved unit has undertaken since 2013, the governor thanked the residents for standing by him through thick and thin. POLITICAL ENEMIES He said it is because of the people that he became a governor. Mr Joho said his political enemies branded him names including calling him a sultan to tarnish his image so as to separate him from the residents. “They even called for press conferences saying that I wanted to become their sultan, a king to rule over them. Instead people fell in love with the name. They don’t understand the love the people have for me, they tried but failed miserably,” he said. Mr Joho said the sultan name worked against his political enemies whom he did not name. He said he monitors his social media sites where he sees people spewing hatred and criticising all the good his devolved unit has achieved. MORE RESPONSIVE “Let us stop criticising as if there’s a reward for it. I thank God and I am lucky, because, people think everything is mine even the county inspectorates, garbage or chikungunya belong to Joho, whatever bad thing that happens in Mombasa, it is associated with me,” he said. He also wants devolution strengthened and 50 per cent of revenue allocated to it. Mr Joho said counties are more responsive to the demands of the people. “Devolution has worked but we need to strengthen it. We need half of the resources to develop counties. Despite the political affiliation we can develop because devolution does not choose political parties,” he added. The governor asked the national government to strengthen devolution by fully devolving all functions and allocating the resources. “They have deducted counties funds by Sh9 billion or so. Allow resources to follow functions and you will have sorted out your problems. You don’t need to give billions to health ministry yet 99 per cent of the function is devolved,” Mr Joho advised. Mr Joho said he will champion for referendum on requisite amendments which will be inclusive to ensure resources are devolved as he urged Kenyans to hold leaders to account. CHANGED LIVES “We must engage; you don’t have to come from a big tribe to become a leader. When I was Kisauni MP from 2007 to 2012, we used to frequent Office OF the President to beg for basic stUff but things are different due to devolution,” Mr Joho said. But thanks to devolution, Mr Joho said governors can make orders which are effected immediately. “The only area we got it wrong as Council of Governors is taking blame for everything that is not going right in counties. People don’t understand we have been given 15 per cent of resources but 85 are still held at the national government,” he said. Mr Joho said the money allocated to counties is little and only used to pay workers. He challenged the national government to account for the remaining 85 per cent to the tax payers. He however condemned Kenyans for finding faults disregarding how successful devolution has changed lives.   Uhuru hails Joho’s change of tune, saying it is time for all leaders to work together.