Talisman George Mutira sunk in five goals as Butali Sugar Warriors crushed visiting Nakuru 9-1 in a men’s hockey Premier League duel at City Park Stadium on Sunday. In the women’s Premier League, Jackie Mwangi and Audrey Omaido netted a brace each to spur defending champions Telkom to an effortless 6-1 victory against Amira Sailors in a one-sided women’s tie at the same venue. Mutira had also scored once on Saturday when Butali Warriors weathered a battling Wazalendo to win 4-2. The bounty harvest saw the Warriors widen their lead at the top over second-placed and defending champions Kenya Police to nine points. It’s a weekend that saw Greensharks blow up their slim title chances when they drew 2-2 with Kenya College of Accountancy-University (KCA-U) on Saturday, before squandering a 1-0 lead in the last five minutes to lose 3-1 to 2012 champions Nairobi Simba. Warriors now sitting pretty at the top of the 12 team league with 39 points from 13 wins and one loss, while Kenya Police, who have not been in action for the last two weeks, are second with 30 points from 10 wins and one loss. The pressure is now on Police, who have three matches in hand, to try and close the gap on the Warriors at the top, with Greensharks placed third with 24 points. Police, who are facing financial difficulties, had requested Kenya Hockey Union to postpone their matches to a later date, have a date with USIU-A on September 23. Against Nakuru, Mutira scored in the seventh, 27th, 37th 48th and 51st minutes in a duel, where Constant Wakhura opened the onslaught in the third minute from the spot for the Warriors. Barnabas Odhiambo, Lawrence Okubau, and Zack Aura would later add more goals in 23rd, 54th and 56th minutes to confine the Great Rift side to more misery. Gary Jean Loius netted the consolation goal for Nakuru in 39th minute. On Saturday, its Frank Wanagwe’s second minute goal that put Butali 1-0 ahead against Wazalendo, before Barnabas Odhiambo’s penalty corner in the third quarter stretched their lead to 2-0. Elly Mwanzi brought Wazalendo back into the match with a field goal in the 41st minute, but Emmanuel Simiyu and Mutira’s goals in 51st and 56th minutes, destabilised Wazalendo’s surge even as Eric Ochieng netted their second goal three minutes to time. Telkom are on course for a record 21st title with Omaido and Mwangi’s double taking their tally to 24 points from a clean run of eight outings. Barbara Simiyu and Maureen Okumu scored Telkom’s other goals.  