A section of women leaders has condemned the impeachment of embattled Nairobi County Assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi. Speaking in Taveta, the leaders said the MCAs were driven by ill motives to frustrate Ms Elachi. Chief Administrative Secretary Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs Rachel Shebesh said the assembly was derailing Nairobi County’s development agenda. She said Nairobi residents need development and not politicking. “The business community in Nairobi want projects such as construction of markets, traders are tired of selling their goods along sewer lines,” she said. HIGHER POLITICAL SEAT She said women leaders would support Ms Elachi to get a higher political seat in future. “I want to encourage my friend Ms Elachi that what she is going through is only preparing her for a high position in future,” she said. Likoni MP Mishi Mboko described the MCA's move as an act of male chauvinism. She said it was time men started appreciating women leadership. Ms Mboko said Ms Elachi is qualified to lead the county assembly and termed the MCAs move as a drawback in the fight against gender inequality. “You should stand firm, we will fight for you to ensure that you remain in your position until your term expires,”. SELFISH INTERESTS She said that qualified women deserve to serve in public offices. Ms Mboko alleged that some men were pushing women out of their positions for their selfish interests. “There must be women in public institutions. Why is it that men gang up to fight women out of their positions over petty issues? We will not accept such acts,” she said. Ijara MP Sofia Abdi, who also condemned the move, said that women leaders are known to work hard in their areas of jurisdiction. She said the Parliament had dragged for too long to pass the two thirds gender rule. FIGHT IMPEACHMENT “This is the first step to ensure equal representation in leadership for both men and women in national offices,” the MP said. Taveta MP Naomi Shaban said she will support Ms Elachi who moved to court on Thursday to block the MCAs’ decision. On her part, Ms Elachi said she will fight her impeachment. Ms Elachi said she is qualified to be Nairobi’s County Assembly Speaker and she will not allow the MCAs to kick her out of office. STATE LOANS She said the government has been fighting corruption and she will support the government in protecting public funds. The leaders were speaking during a Huduma Mashinani event in Taveta town. The event was organised by the Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs ministry to bring government services closer to Taveta sub county residents. During the event, Ms Shebesh presented state loans worth Sh17 million to various groups in Taita Taveta County.   Ms Elachi says her woes stem from issues of benchmarking, tenders and investigations.