Hoteliers at the resort town of Malindi in Kilifi County are ripping big following the ongoing Arid and Semi-Arid Conference (ASAL) attended by over 1,000 delegates. Le Chateau B&B director Janet Nderitu said her 16 roomed guest house along Ocean beach resort where the conference is ongoing has been fully booked. “The conference has awoken tourism in Malindi to greater magnitude since such conferences usually happen in Nairobi and Mombasa,” she said Ms Nderitu who urged the government to consider bringing such conferences in the resort town said her guests have promised to come back for holiday in Malindi after the experience. Recently, Mr Alexander Zissimatos, the Tropical Village, Malindi Dream Garden and Dream of Africa general manager said he has recorded 70 percent bed occupancy. Some of hoteliers and other businessmen have expressed optimistic that the event shall revive both local and international tourism in the resort to its original state. Johari Garden Restaurant director, Ms Monalisa Ng’ang’a who has erupted a tent outside Ocean Beach resort for selling food to delegates said the function has improved businesses in Malindi. “I am optimistic that more of such conferences will revive businesses and tourism in Malindi,” she said adding “personally have erupted tent to sell food to attendants who are not in the conference food program.” During the conference opening ceremony graced by Deputy President William Ruto, the devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa said 1,000 delegates turned out for conference surpassing the 700 delegates they were expecting for the event. Some of the delegates who include governors and other top government officials had to stay in hotels at Watamu and Kilifi which is about 50 Kilometers away from Malindi since most hotels were fully occupied. Baobab Restaurant Beach director Godfery Karume said although the conference is short, it is going to make a great impact on businesses and tourism in Malindi. “I have been receiving many guests at my restaurants for dinner and I hope such events should be brought in Malindi to revive tourism,” he said. Malindi, also referred as little Sicily among Italian tourists has been enjoying the dominance of Italians until the upsurge of terrorist attacks in 2000 forcing most hotels to close down. However, some Italian investors said the difficult economic situation in the home country also contributed to the upsurge of Italian tourists at the resort town. Governor Amason Kingi and Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa also took the conference opportunity to promote tourism in the resort town in order to improve residents’ livelihood. “I encourage you to sample the rich cultural heritage and tourist sites in Malindi including the famous Vasco Da Gamma pillar, Malindi and Watamu Marine Park which are home for turtle and colourful fish and beautiful beaches,” said Mr Kingi in a statement to the press. On her part, Ms Jumwa encourage delegates to explore and visit Malindi again to experience the magical experience the Mijikenda and Swahili culture together with the beautiful landscape and beaches. Mr Hamisi Omar, a bodaboda operator said they charged extra fare than normal following the boom and increase in petrol prices. “I charge Sh200 from Total to Ocean Beach resort rather than the usual Sh150 during the conference that has brought so many people in town,” he said adding that “this period I ferry 10 people to Ocean beach and back.”   Most local flights have been fully booked ahead of the Easter holidays with prices shooting through the roof for the remaining few seats.