Ulinzi Stars secured their second win in a row with a 2-0 result over champions Gor Mahia in a midweek SportPesa Premier League match at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos County on Wednesday. Elvis Nandwa broke the deadlock with his 10th league goal this term on 37 minutes, tapping home Daniel Waweru’s pin-point cross from the right flank, before claiming a brace three minutes after restart on a hot afternoon. Victory for the soldiers, their sixth in 23 matches against Gor takes their points tally to 50, and they lie fourth, a point below third-placed AFC Leopards, who fell 3-1 to Kariobangi Sharks on Tuesday. K'Ogalo, who claimed the title three weeks ago, suffered their third defeat of the campaign. In Thika, Timothy Otieno;s brace helped Tusker see off relegation threatened Thika United 2-0, as Sofapaka trounced Kakamega Homeboyz 4-1 at Narok stadium. Gor players have been on a week-long go slow, protesting unpaid August salary and bonuses and managed to raise only 15 players to honour the fixture, forcing coach Dylan Kerr to make five changes to the team that lost 1-0 to Thika United last Sunday. “It’s been horrendous since we came back from Algiers, we can’t prepare well. We planned to leave for Machakos at 9am, but left an-hour-and-a-half later because the team manager was literally calling players to come for the game,” said the frustrated Englishman after the game. He added: “My captain (Harun Shakava) has been locked out of the house, Kahata (Francis) said he is not in the right state of mind to play, but credit to the players, they gave their all despite the circumstances.” Ulinzi coach Dunstan Nyaudo said their 14th win so far was vital in propelling them to a better finish this season. “We came for a win, we knew Gor have nothing left to fight for because they’ve clinched the championship already, but thanks to good preparations we have reaped the points,” said Nyaudo, who made two changes to the team that beat Wazito 1-0 last Sunday. Harun Mwale and George Omondi replaced the injured duo of Oliver Ruto and Bernard Ongoma respectively, while Gor had Jacques Tuyisenge and Ephrem Guikan upfront, with Innocent Wafula captaining the side in the absence of Harun Shakava. Ulinzi's Enosh Ochieng’ headed wide Abdallah Hamisi’s cross in the 20th minute and four minutes later, Innocent Wafula’s rasping shot went inches wide with an eye on goal after dummying Hamisi inside the box. Ochieng’ thought he doubled his side's lead three minutes before the break, but his goal was rightfully ruled offside by second assistant referee Gladys Kamuren. Nandwa’s bullet shot for Ulinzi’s second goal on 48 minutes forced Kerr to make a double change in the 54th minute pulling out Karim Nizigiyimana and Kevin Omondi for Boniface Omondi and Francis Mustafa respectively. Ephrem Guikan received a beautiful Joachim Oluoch through pass at the hour mark, before unleashing a left-footed shot into the back of the net only to be flagged offside. The Ivorian was denied by the upright seven minutes later after being fed by Raphael Asudi, who replaced Wesley Onguso on 59 minutes. Ulinzi now shift focus to the SportPesa Shield semi-final clash against Kariobangi Sharks slated for Sunday at the same venue, while Gor visit Vihiga United in their upcoming league match next week. WEDNESDAY'S RESULTS Gor Mahia 0-2 Ulinzi Stars (Kenyatta Stadium) Thika United 0-2 Tusker (Thika Stadium) Sofapaka 4-1 Kakamega Homeboyz (Narok Stadium)  