Women’s Berlin Marathon champion and record course holder Gladys Cherono jetted back home on Wednesday to a low key reception at the Eldoret International Airport. Her husband-cum coach Joseph Bwambok and some her friends were at hand to welcome her home with the champion given a sip of soar milk (mursik) to congratulate her good performance. Cherono, the 2014 World Half Marathon champion, edged out Ethiopians Ruti Aga who finished second at Tokyo Marathon in February and multiple world and Olympic champion Tirunesh Dibaba to second and third places in 2:18:34 and 2:18:55 respectively. According to Cherono, her good preparations back at home helped her perform well in the race which she described as competitive. “I’m happy I was able to clinch victory for the third time. I had done my preparations well and I was not fearing anyone during the race,” said the champion. Cherono smashed a course record held by Mizuki Noguchi since 2005 and is still optimistic of further lowering it. “My target was to try and better my personal best, but I was happy to also break the course record. Getting into the race, I had to run my own because I believe in what I had done during the build-up training back at home,” added the Eldoret-based athlete.   The champion is now taking a break from training before she embarks on recovery and future plans. “I will be taking a break for now then we shall discuss with my coach my next race, but I want to say I will be back in Berlin next year,” she said. She also congratulated the world record holder Eliud Kipchoge saying that women can also break the record in Berlin, since it has a good and flat course. “Kipchoge ran a brilliant race and I want to congratulate him for breaking the marathon men’s record time. I also want to congratulate Amos Kipruto and Wilson Kipsang who came in second and third positions respectively,” said the athlete, who is under Gianni Demadonna Management. Cherono’s time is the fourth fastest in the history of women’s marathon after Paula Radcliffe’s 2:15:25, Mary Keitany’s 2:17:01 and Dibaba’s 2:17:56. She won Berlin in 2015 with a personal best of 2:19:25, before reclaiming the title last year in 2:20:23. Her husband-cum coach Bwambok is happy that their three months training did not go to waste. “When I saw Dibaba on the leading pack, I didn’t panic because it was too early to judge the outcome of the race. Our three months training at home bore fruits and I’m happy for the third time win,” said Bwambok. Cherono was inspired by her debut in Dubai Marathon in 2015, where she came in second, which led her to run her first Major Marathon the same year in Berlin where she won. She will be hosted to a big reception on Saturday at their home in Kapsabet, Nandi County.   She finished ahead of Ethiopia's Aga Ruti (2:18.35).