The lawyer of slain woman Sharon Otieno’s family Peter Kaluma has said the post-mortem results of the university student should provide detectives with crucial leads to nail down the main culprits behind her death. Mr Kaluma, the Homa Bay Town MP, also insisted that the deceased will not be buried until police arrest her killers. “I insist that Sharon Otieno will not be buried in our ancestral land until we know her killers. Kenya is a forgetful country and the moment we bury her, we will forget everything to do with her death,” Mr Kaluma said. He said the DCI should do justice to Ms Otieno’s family and the entire country. Mr Kaluma said detectives yesterday visited Nyangweso market on Homa Bay-Kisumu Road where Nation journalist Barrack Oduor jumped out of the killer’s vehicle on the night Ms Otieno was killed. BIZARRE MURDER He also confirmed that no family member of the deceased has recorded statement with the detectives. The lawmaker pointed out that from the multiple stabs inflicted on the 26-year-old's neck, back and the left side of the stomach as was revealed by the post-mortem, the motive of the killers was very clear. “The post-mortem to me has revealed everything for police to narrow down on the killers. It is clear that they not only wanted Sharon dead but also the foetus,” Mr Kaluma said. “It could be that the owner of foetus wanted it dead; it could be that also people around the owner of the foetus wanted the girl and the unborn dead for their own selfish reasons,” he added. EXCESSIVE BLEEDING The autopsy conducted at Rachuonyo Level Four Hospital Mortuary in Oyugis, Homa Bay County, on Friday showed that Ms Otieno died of excessive bleeding. The examination showed that she was stabbed three times on the neck, four times on the back and once on the left side of the stomach. According to chief government pathologist Johansen Oduor, Ms Otieno was stabbed in the abdomen from the back to the front, killing the seven-month old foetus. The post-mortem also revealed strangulation marks on Ms Otieno’s neck and several bruises on her body, indicating that she tried to fight off her killers. Mr Kaluma thanked the media for the sustained coverage of the murder of the student, adding that the pressure should be sustained until the matter is resolved.   Mr Obado said attempts to link him to the abduction and murder was all political.