Lamu Governor Fahim Twaha has reinstated two county executive members just six months after firing them. Mr Raphael Munyua Ndung’u (Health) and Ms Florence Wairimu Ndung’u (Agriculture and Water Development) were reinstated following a Mombasa Employment and Labour Relations Court which directed the county government of Lamu to ensure the two are reinstated with immediate effect. COMPELLING REASONS The court had ruled that there were no compelling reasons for their dismissal. Governor Twaha had fired the two in April this year. But during the ruling on September 20 this year, Justice Linnet Ndolo argued that in the circumstance of the case, it would appear that the governor made the decision to dismiss the petitioners without any known reasons. “The attempt to introduce reasons in pleadings could not cure this irregularity and the court finds that the petitioner’s dismissal was unlawful, null and void. In light of the findings and taking into account the blatant violation of the law by the respondents, the court finds that the only viable remedy is reinstatement of the petitioners to the position held prior to the impugned termination. The reinstatement is without loss of any salary and or benefits,” the court directed. During a sitting at the Lamu County Assembly on Thursday afternoon, the Speaker Abdu Kassim Ahmed read a communication from the chair that Mr Twaha had reinstated the two ministers. Contacted, Mr Munyua thanked Governor Twaha for respecting the court order and reinstating them and assured the Lamu people of better services. VETTING EXERCISE “I thank the governor for reinstating us in accordance with the court order. I will work hard to serve the people of Lamu to see their aspirations come true,” said Mr Munyua. Meanwhile, the Lamu County Assembly has commenced the vetting exercise for three candidates nominated for the chief officers position. They include Mr Julius Mutusia Okindo ( Public Service Management and Administration), Dr Charles Gichohi Mathenge ( Livestock and Cooperative Development) and Mr Simon Mulwa Komu ( Fisheries).   Approved ministers to replace two who fired last month.