Detectives investigating the murder of Rongo University student Sharon Otieno say their persons of interest are seven individuals, who either molested her or had contact with her before she died. Mr Michael Oyamo, Migori Governor Okoth Obado’s personal assistant, journalist Barrack Oduor and the four-member gang that kidnapped the woman, were the initial crucial suspects. Now detectives say they are looking into contacts that tried to reach her on phone moments before she died. On Thursday, the family of Ms Otieno handed over an extra phone she often used but which she had left at home on that fateful day. It was on and her mother Melida Auma reported that certain calls from unknown numbers came through. “Her sister had the PIN and she opened it. I found many calls marked unknown and was not able to know the callers. The phone was handed over to the DCI," she told the Nation. QUESTIONING OBADO Ms Auma was categorical that Sharon told her the father of her unborn baby was Governor Obado. Nyanza DCI boss Michael Barasa could not confirm or deny if his team would question the governor, but indicated they will be interviewing all persons of interest. “We don’t want to make comments that may prejudice the ongoing process. Our team from Nairobi is working with us to unravel the mystery surrounding the death and abduction,” he said. On Friday, Mr Obado’s press secretary Nicholas Anyuor told journalists he will no longer be commenting on the matter on behalf of the governor going forward. COMMENTS His decision may have followed a warning from the DCI chief in Nyanza, who said they were concerned by Mr Obado’s communication secretary’s utterances, which he noted may compel them to question him. “We have noted the official has been making comments on behalf of the governor over this matter and if need be, we shall also question him,” the official said. Mr Barasa said it was only fair for the officer to give details of his thoughts.   Lawyer Cliff Ombeta and a pathologist represented Obado.