With the world’s athletics focus shifting to Germany this Sunday for the BMW Berlin Marathon, the main talk will be on whether two of world’s greatest athletes will set a new world record. Locally Bank of Africa will host what has now popularly become known as a “marathon viewerthon” at the at the Keellu Resort in Iten where the lender’s customers and local athletic fans will interact as they support the marathoners. “This is the fifth straight year we are hosting the Viewerthon which gives us a chance to better interact with our customers and the athletic community. “Together with our partners, we use Viewerthons as an opportunity to offer financial advice to the local athletic community and other stakeholders,” said Bank of Africa’s Head of Marketing, Jimmi Wanjohi. “In addition to sponsoring the marathon viewing parties, BOA offers a distinctive package for sportsmen and women through its ‘Mwanariadha Account’ and Asset Finance whose offering further contributes to their financial goals.” Bank of Africa’s partners include LG Electronics who will showcase their products and services during the viewing party at the Keellu Resort. LG Electronics will also organise customer service sessions for their clients in Iten and Eldoret on the marathon weekend from Friday to Sunday. The Iten “viewerthon” will, — besides presentations by Bank of Africa, the Kenya Revenue Authority and the Anti-Doping Agency, who are other partners in the series — also offer relevant advice to stakeholders. Kenya’s Eliud Kipchoge, 33, a strong contender to become the first athlete to complete a marathon in under two hours, and former world record holder Wilson Kipsang, 36, who set his world record time of 2:03:23 in 2013 on the same course, are the talk of town in the German capital. Compatriot Dennis Kimetto, 24, currently holds the world record at a time of 2:02:57 having broken Kipsang’s record in 2014, also in Berlin, by eight seconds. Gladys Cherono and Edna Kiplagat will lead Kenya’s female line up at this year’s edition of the Berlin race. The Nandi County Government has also organised a race viewing in Kapsabet town.   And she still holds the world record for 5,000m on the track.