Yogindra Tikku, a multi-talented and likeable personality of our world of entertainment of the nineties, continues to make his artistic presence felt in Bollywood. He was recently seen in an offbeat historical and action packed movie, Parmanu. The movie, based on the nuclear bomb tests conducted by the Indian army at Pokhran, is a cinematic offering starring John Abraham and Diana Penty in the lead roles and supported by, among other Indian performers, our Yogindra Tikku as the scientist Naresh Sinha. Tikku, born in India, lived and worked in Nairobi for over a decade in the nineties. Kenyan theatregoers remember his active participation in theatrical productions staged by the leading Asian theatre group, Natak. His performances in the lead role of Ranjha in the love legend of star-crossed lovers Heer Ranjha, and an exquisite impersonation of Auntie in Chachi O Chachi (an adaptation of the comedy Charlie’s Aunt), established him as an actor of substance. GREATLY APPRECIATED His appearances in the Phoenix Players’ The Taming of the Shrew and Moon on a Rainbow Shawl were greatly appreciated. While in Kenya, he also successfully directed a couple of Natak Group’s comedies. Dashing Yogindra was equally at home entertaining song-happy Nairobians with his musical concerts and comic sketches before seeking wider horizons. Returning to India, Tikku moved on to become a professional stage actor and later did TV serials before breaking a leg, so as to say, in theatrical terms, on the big screen. Some of the very successful movies he has featured in are No one killed Jessica,Dabang 2, Bajate Raho, Queen, Ankhon Dekhi and Neerja. Tikku’s latest Parmanu, directed by Abhishek Sharma, has been applauded by discerning fans in India and around the world. It is a tribute to the army and scientists who, although ordinary citizens, accomplish extraordinary feats in the face of adversity to ensure that their country finds its true place on the world nuclear map. Yogindra, pitted against veterans like Boman Irani and John Abraham, gave a strong performance. I have personally had an opportunity to direct and act with Tikku in a number of local productions and have found him to be a passionate, dedicated and sensitive actor. All the best, Yogindra, in the world of performing art.    It's an initiative of Kenbharti Centre Kenya and appropriately dubbed MAA TUJHE SALAAM 7.