Asking whether it is prudent for this country to start mulling yet another electoral contest in the name of a referendum is akin to stepping into quicksand, but I’ll be uncharacteristically adventurous and hazard a loud NO. A referendum is the last thing Kenyans need now however appealing it may sound. If there must be one, it should be administered as part of the next General Election, and perhaps the economies of scale will work in favour of the hard-pressed taxpayers. Also, to postpone it will enable us to squeeze all our latent aggressive politicking into a shorter period so that we can do more important things like growing the economy. DIVISIVE In my view, a referendum next year, barely two years after a presidential election left a great deal of bitterness in its wake followed by a repeat which was, for all practical purposes, a waste of time and money, is not likely to heal this country’s decidedly ruptured political and economic system. To hold a referendum next year will just lead to even more acrimony, bitterness and even hatred between communities however noble the intentions behind the idea may be. We all know well the kind of madness that grips us every electoral cycle, and a referendum is nothing short of a general election without too many busybodies seeking office. We cannot always solve our problems by holding one election after another to satisfy individual cravings for power. Third, in our parlous economic state, and in a situation where an already over-burdened population keeps creeping closer to a tax revolt, it is not clear how we can afford yet another costly election. COSTLY The country spent approximately Sh50 billion during the 2017 General Election and another Sh13 billion during the repeat presidential election earlier this year. At the time, it was reckoned that this must surely be the most expensive election in the continent and in the world relative to the country’s size and population. If the referendum proposal sails through, the electoral body is likely to seek similar amounts of money to administer it. Surely the country can’t afford to be so profligate at a time when the loan burden is already unbearable. The fourth reason why a referendum may be inadvisable next year is that many of the identified problems can be sorted out using other methods. Judicious parliamentary amendments to a few laws here and there may go a long way in lessening the gravity of the more nagging problems we face. CORRUPTION For instance, you can’t fight corruption by asking people whether it is being done right. All that is required is for Parliament to enhance the penalties the graft lords should suffer if caught. This would act as an effective deterrent. However, there are instances in which a referendum is required, and that is to review the Constitution 2010 in fundamental ways. For instance, the number of electoral units and over-representation can only be solved by seeking the views of Kenyans in general, especially when they agree in one voice that there are too many corrupt drones in political office that need to be retired forthwith because they contribute little to the nation’s welfare. Those who came up with the new constitution which incorporated Devolution as its central plank had the right idea but, in hindsight, they became too enthusiastic about the numbers. REPRESENTATION There are few countries our size which can keep in grand opulence 47 governors, 67 senators, 349 MPs, 47 Woman Representatives, and 1,450 MCAs. But anyone who expects MPs to legislate themselves out of their luxurious jobs will have to wait for a long time. It can only be done through a referendum. It is, therefore, strange that over-representation was not among the nine points ostensibly agreed on by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Mr Raila Odinga before the celebrated handshake. Apparently, it was more important to address ethnic strife, fight corruption, strengthen Devolution, end divisive elections, safeguard national security, propagate a national ethos, and inculcate inclusivity. Some of these objectives are laudable but others smack of rhetoric. Still, it is not easy to see why any of them requires a referendum. PRESIDENCY What requires a plebiscite is a fundamental change in the way Kenyans are governed. The proposed creation of the office of an executive prime minister which will inevitably lead to the emasculation of the presidency will always be a hard sell to those others who aspire to that position. That is precisely why Deputy President William Ruto is so vehemently opposed to a referendum that seems to be tailored specifically to deny him the opportunity. Though there is no point in taking a stand on succession politics, there is one thing the referendum proponents are not addressing: Who will pay for it? If the country is already surviving in penury, should the President seek another loan for the purpose or raise taxes further? The quest for political power is valid, but sometimes it would be best if political players removed blinkers from their eyes to see the bigger picture. Mr Ngwiri is a consultant editor. andrewngwiri@gmail.com  