Slain university student Sharon Otieno was stabbed eight times, strangled and raped, a post-mortem examination revealed Friday. The post-mortem conducted at the Rachuonyo Level Four Hospital in Oyugis, Homa Bay County, showed that Ms Otieno died of excessive bleeding. The examination showed that she was stabbed three times on the neck, four times on the back and once on the left side of the stomach. According to Chief Government pathologist Johansen Oduor, Ms Otieno was stabbed in the abdomen from the back to the front, killing the seven-month old foetus. The post-mortem also revealed strangulation marks on Ms Otieno’s neck and several bruises on her body, indicating that she tried to fight off her killers. "She had many bruises, an indication that she struggled in her death. The baby in her womb died as a result of this stab," Dr Oduor said while addressing journalists after the five-hour exercise. CONDOMS FOUND Dr Oduor also noted that there was a high possibility that the 26-year-old Rongo University student could have been raped by her killers before they brutally murdered her, explaining the recovery of used condoms at the scene where she was murdered in the expansive Kodera forest in Homa Bay County. Four used condoms were recovered at the crime scene. The government pathologist said some samples will be taken to the government chemist for more analysis including a DNA test. Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma, a lawyer representing Ms Otieno's family, said they were satisfied with the autopsy results. "We thank IG Joseph Boinett, DCI George Kinoti and the local investigations team for their good work," Mr Kaluma said. OBADO REPRESENTED He said the family was praying for justice to be done and that the post-mortem results confirm that investigations can now zero in on specific targets. "The motive behind stabbing of foetus to death should lead us to the real culprits," he said, adding that Ms Otieno will not be buried untill her killers are brought to book. The autopsy was witnessed by lawyer Cliff Ombeta, who told journalists he was there to represent the interests of Migori Governor Zachary Okoth Obado who has been adversely mentioned in Ms Otieno’s brutal murder. Mr Ombeta was accompanied by a pathologist identified as Dr Fredrick Otieno, also representing the governor, who has not been seen in public since Ms Otieno’s abduction and eventual murder. “I came here under the instructions of Governor Obado. He has been mentioned adversely and falsely and he is not involved in any way. He does not know where the allegations are (coming) from,” Mr Ombeta told journalists. DETECTIVES He however noted that Dr Otieno was satisfied with the autopsy results. Close relatives of Ms Otieno started arriving at the mortuary as early as 11am to witness the exercise. Emotions ran high when her family members, among them her mother Melinda Auma, arrived at the mortuary, some minutes before noon. A team of about 10 special investigative officers from Nairobi were also at the mortuary to witness the exercise.   National Assembly Minority Leader John Mbadi reveals what he knew about the meeting.