The deal still stands: Should Eliud Kipchoge shatter the world marathon record in Berlin next weekend, he will drive off a new Isuzu Dmax double-cab pick-up worth Sh20 million. This after truck and bus manufacturer, Isuzu East Africa, Wednesday renewed of its partnership with the Olympic champion as Isuzu Dmax brand ambassador for another two years. Speaking at the partnership signing ceremony at Isuzu EA offices, Isuzu managing director Rita Kavashe said the renewal of the brand ambassador partnership is a testimony of the success realised over the first year. "One year ago, we announced our first ever brand partnership with a sports personality, Eliud Kipchoge. Eliud resonates particularly well with the key attributes of the Isuzu brand," she said. "Through his world class performances, he has demonstrated remarkable strength, resilience and reliability in the races he has participated in. We’ve seen great value in bringing together these two strong brands. We are proud to have Eliud as our Isuzu Dmax brand ambassador." she said. Kipchoge noted that many challenges are faced by the sporting community in Kenya and was happy that Isuzu EA was taking the lead in promoting sports in Kenya. "Isuzu EA’s steadfast support to my running career sends the important message that major corporates have a significant role to play in sports building at all levels, from local grassroots to international levels," said Kipchoge. The renewed brand ambassador partnership comes just one week before Kipchoge leaves the country for the Berlin Marathon, which will take place next Sunday, September 16. The partnership will also see Kipchoge receive a new Isuzu Dmax luxury double-cab for his training and personal use, as well as full servicing of the vehicle during the period of the partnership. Isuzu EA will also award the Olympic champion with an Isuzu luxury double-cab pick-up valued at Sh5.9 million if he breaks the marathon world record in any of his other international races. Besides its partnership with the marathon champion, Isuzu EA is also the official transport partner of the Kenya Rugby Union since 2016. Marathon star Eliud Kipchoge with Isuzu EA managing director Rita Kavashe after he signed for a further two years as Isuzu Dmax Brand Ambassador.  