Opposition leader Raila Odinga has asked the public not to protect their kin when they are caught in corruption. Mr Odinga, who attended the homecoming ceremony of Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga in Segere, Alego Usonga yesterday, said everyone should expect that their kin or close friends may be arrested or charged with corruption, given the intricate nature graft works in the country. But he cautioned that everyone should carry their cross, if the country is to win the fight against graft. MOMENTUM He said that he fully endorsed the war on corruption and voiced support for arrests of senior government officials accused of theft. Mr Odinga asked the government to sustain the momentum. "The war on graft is real. It is likely to affect some of your relatives and people who are very close and dear to you. I have already asked my people not to panic and be prepared for anything," said Mr Odinga, adding there was no turning back. However, he asked the Director of Public Prosecution, Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the office of the Directorate of Criminal Investigation not to personalise the war. NEW LEAF Once a political nemesis of President Uhuru Kenyatta, Mr Odinga turned over a new leaf in his political career since he entered into a pact with the President on March 9, sealed with a handshake. The Building Bridges Initiative, Mr Odinga, said supports the fight against corruption and will continue to remain the central policy between him and the President, vowing to give all his support. The latest round of arrests of senior government officials involved Supreme Court judge and Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu and Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyampe. Politicians associated with the opposition National Super Alliance are representing the deputy chief justice as her lawyers. PROVEN GUILTY They include Siaya Senator James Orengo, Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr and former vice-president Kalonzo Musyoka. Mr Odinga avoided talking about the issue, but argued the fight against corruption will not be a political score-settling game. He argued that the pact he entered with President Kenyatta is meant to take the country onto the right path for the benefit of all Kenyans. "We don't want to see a situation where people are victimised and prosecuted unfairly. There is going to be honesty and suspects will remain innocent until proven guilty,” said Mr Odinga. Mr Orengo while backing the purge against corruption expressed optimism that it will strengthen the country's economic potential. DIVISIVE POLITICS "Any public servant must strive to see that everything is done in accordance with the law. If you are a thief, then you must be prepared to carry your own cross without invoking the name of your tribe or religion," he said. Mr Orengo further noted that the working together of President Kenyatta and Mr Odinga will create a cohesive country as Kenyans try to forge ahead after the divisive presidential election. Other leaders at the event were Bondo MP Gideon Ochanda, Samuel Atandi (Alego Usonga), Elisha Odhiambo (Gem) and Ugenya MP Christopher Karan.  