Kenya’s top amateur golfer Edwin Mudanyi produced an excellent round of five under par 66 to grab a one-shot lead from two times champion Ronald Otile of Uganda, as the first round of the 2018 Uganda Open Amateur Championship came to a close at the century old Entebbe Golf Club Uganda on Wednesday. Mudanyi from Vet Lab Sports Club, birdied the third, fourth, seventh and ninth in the opening nine, started the back nine with a birdie at the 10th, then parred all the way to the 18th, where he birdied, to jump to the top of the leader board in the event, which comes a week before the main Uganda Open. Otile, a winner of the event in 2015 and 2016, picked up a total of eight birdies, three on the first nine’s first, second, and seventh, as well as at the back nine’s 11th, 12th, 13th, 14th and the par five-18th for a brilliant four under par 67. On the other hand, Limuru Country Club’s John Karichu and youngster Mutahi Kibugu of Muthaiga tied for the third place after firing one under par 70 each Karichu, who is chasing the Kenya Amateur Golf Championship (KAGC) title, birdied the first, 11th, 13th, 14th and 18th, but against four bogeys over the second, fifth, ninth and 17th holes. The youngster Kibugu, picked up birdies on the first, third, and 17th, with two bogeys on the second and ninth holes to join Karichu in third place as the opening round of the event was closing to an end. Another Kenyan player, Samuel Njoroge was tying in fifth place with Uganda’s Joseph Cwinyaai, Herman Mutebi and Dennis Asaba on level par 71. Njoroge birdied the fourth, ninth, 11th, 14th and 15th , to remain in close contact with the Karichu and Njoroge. A total of 13 Kenyan amateurs are participating in the championship, which like the pro event, has attracted players from different parts of Africa. The second round is set for Thursday morning, followed by the third and fourth rounds on Friday and Saturday. Meanwhile, most of the Kenyan pros are set to leave this weekend for Entebbe ready for the championship being sponsored by Castle Lite.  