In his early thirties, Reuben Kimani is the co-founder and CEO Username Investment Limited, a local land buying and selling company. Reuben is a professional engineer having graduated with first class honours in computer science from Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT). He also has a strong background in Telecommunication and IT. The engineer turned entrepreneur has previously worked for corporates like Safaricom and KRA. How would you describe your childhood? I had what many would refer to as a typical childhood-We didn’t have much but thankfully, we didn’t lack. Growing up, I was passionate about education as I didn’t want a life in the village, so I ensured that I did exceptionally both at secondary and University levels.  As an accomplished engineer and ICT professional, what motivated you to join the real estate industry?In 2012, I noticed that land was only affordable to those who were either earning a high income or well advanced in age. I wished to change that culture and I thought, ‘how about I make land accessible to young people with low salaries’? I teamed up with two other great minds to provide properties ranging from Sh 100,000- Sh 500,000 with flexible payment plans of up to 12 months.  What was your first entrepreneurship endeavour? I was a cobbler both in primary and secondary schools.  You left a well-paying job in the corporate world. Do you look back and think how crazy that was or does it give you pride? Somehow, I knew that I was cut for the business world but it was a crazy transit. My earnings dropped from a six-figure salary to a mere Sh 25,000! However, looking at the number of satisfied customers we have served, the 40 employees we have directly employed – and over 500 indirectly, seeing those young people who earn less than Sh 50,000 being able to buy land,that gives me immense pride.  In a span of three years, you have transformed Username Investments Ltd from just a startup to an established property company. What has been your secret? I have had great support from family, business partners, stakeholders and clients. But, it has also been a journey of determination and persistence, thinking big and scaling up, being open-minded, developing a culture of personal delivery, delivering beyond customers’ expectations and learning from customers’ feedback. Having a great team has continuously boosted the growth of the company.  Looking back, is there anything that you wish you did differently? Quite a number. I would pursue real estate related course instead of focusing on a course that I believed would give me a good job and money. As a student, I would make proper use of the money offered by HELB and be more open minded – ready to pursue interests outside my career path.  As an entrepreneur, have you failed and if yes, what lessons did you learn? We have had quite a number of setbacks along the way. At one time, we hadn’t conducted extensive due diligence on a property we wished to acquire and we ended up losing Sh 5,000,000 we had paid as the deposit. The business almost went under! We now involve lawyers and research extensively before entering into any agreement. I opine that failure is the greatest source of learning. If we never failed, we would never have known the best way to run Username Investment Ltd.  What is the biggest revelation you have learnt in your journey as an entrepreneur? Change of belief system- entrepreneurship has taught me that life is not all about making money to settle monthly bills. Also, the lesser the risk, the lower the returns. I have learnt to take bigger projects but also make calculated risks.  Which CEO do you admire greatly? I have admiration for different business leaders but James Mwangi CEO of Equity Bank and Richard Branson, Founder of Virgin Group top the list.  How do you compare your 20’s and 30’s? In my early 20’s, my linear path was to find a good job, get a good house and a car. While at this age, I failed in many interviews because with my first class honours, I didn’t see the need to carry out any background research on the hiring company. Now in my early 30’s, I have already changed the mindset and I am focusing on leaving a positive impact on the current and succeeding generations.  Are young people buying land? How do you entice them to buy? You will be surprised that most of our clients are indeed young people. We focus on affordability and flexible payment options, innovation, title delivery, strategic locations and value additions. Since inception in 2013, we have issued over 5,000 title deeds.  Share a few lessons you’ve picked along the way about money. One of the greatest lessons that I have learnt is that without a budget, you’ll end up a free –spender. As such, all monthly income I receive is budgeted for and directed to value-adding opportunities. I have also learnt that it is more beneficial to save money in an investment scheme where it earns you some profits. Lastly, life is not all about money. If it is your only motivation, disappointments await.  What is the best advice you’ve ever heard? Find out what works for you and focus your efforts there.  Do you have some hidden talents? I could be an artist in the making-I write different handwritings and also enjoy calligraphy. Also, to some extent, I think of myself as a designer- I designed our company’s logo as it is. With some training, I can dance too.  How do you rejuvenate? I work out five times a week, read different genres of books and occasionally watch movies.   Reuben Kimani is the CEO - Username Investment Ltd.