Debutantes Wazito and Vihiga United continue with their relegation dogfight on Wednesday when they take on Kariobangi Sharks and champions Gor Mahia respectively in the SportPesa Premier League. With Thika United already relegated, the trio of Chemelil Sugar, Wazito and Vihiga United will be hoping to haul themselves out of the red zone with a win in their respective fixtures Wednesday afternoon. In Machakos, Wazito face a rampant Kariobangi Sharks side that booked their place in the SportPesa Shield final for the second year running on Sunday after hammering Ulinzi Stars 4-1 and have won their last four matches in the league. Wazito have won only twice in the last 18 games and coach Frank Ouna knows only a win this afternoon will guarantee them further stay in the top flight. Ouna has repeatedly pointed at a lack of marquee signings as the reason for the team’s poor performance, although he remains confident that they can pull off a great escape from the dead in the last three games. “We shall fight till the end. That is the spirit I have taught my players. They have given everything they could, but they were too young and inexperienced to perform any better in such a competitive environment,” he said. THIKA DROP Wazito, 17th in the table on 28 points, are four adrift of 16th placed Chemelil Sugar who have no game on Wednesday. Thika United’s splendid strategy of nurturing youthful talent for the last 18 years seems to have fallen flat, as the club was finally relegated last weekend. Sponsored by Brookside Dairies, Thika lost 1-0 to Nzoia Sugar at the Sudi Stadium in Bungoma, although this was only a culmination of a never-ending relegation battle that has spanned three years. Last year, Thika finished in the red zone and only regained top flight status after beating Ushuru in the relegation playoff that was played over two legs. The situation was no different in 2016, when the Thika-based side had to wait until the last day of the season to secure premier league status. AFC Leopards will host Tusker in Machakos from 2pm as they bid to finish second in the league after Sofapaka dimmed their dreams of retaining the SportPesa Shield on Sunday. Reigning champions Gor Mahia will be away in Mumias where relegation-threatened Vihiga United will be out to cause another upset following their shock 1-0 win over Posta Rangers in Machakos last weekend. FIXTURES Kakamega Homeboyz v Sony Sugar (Mumias Complex, 1pm) AFC Leopards v Tusker (Machakos Stadium, 2pm) Bandari v Sofapaka (Mombasa, 3pm) Mathare United v Posta Rangers (MISC Kasarani, 3pm) Zoo Kericho v Ulinzi Stars (Kericho Green Stadium, 3pm) Vihiga United v Gor Mahia (Mumias Complex, 3.15pm) Nakumatt v Nzoia Sugar (Camp Toyoyo, 4pm) Kariobangi Sharks v Wazito (Machakos Stadium, 4.15pm)  