As a teenager, my favourite section of a certain magazine was Dear Aunt Dolly. Just to bring you up to speed, this was a forum where we poured out all our problems to a matronly woman. I’m not sure how she received the problems from her clients because there was no internet. I suppose we used to send smoke signals or scrolls. That small hitch did not stop her from receiving hundreds of queries, mostly from eager teenagers whose hormones were threatening to burst through their veins. We asked her all sorts of questions, including whether we should go ahead and marry this desk mate in Class Eight that made goose pimples appear on our arms every time our eyes locked. Half the time, her advice was that we should first focus on our education and wait for the right age of marriage. What a wet towel on our marriage and child-rearing ambitions! As boys we asked her why tiny hairs were appearing in certain parts of our bodies, and why our erstwhile high pitched voices were sounding strained and drawled. Girls asked her with a lot of concern why their school uniforms were not fitting in some places. Her polite answer was that our bodies were preparing us for parenthood. When we countered if we should just go ahead and actualize our parenthood dreams right there in primary school, she would use a mix of wise counsel and humour to dissuade us from those dreams we were harbouring. ABUSE Last week, our Estate Security Consultant Mr Wafula nearly took me back to those days of Aunt Dolly with me as the relationship counsellor. As he opened the gate to the estate for me, he gingerly knocked on the passenger window and from the look on his face I could tell he was a man in distress. “Boss, your Domestic Secretary has abused me in front of other people”. He proceeded to tearfully narrate how our DS has been attacking him verbally, calling him a man of loose morals among other disrespectful names. I killed the engine and leaned back on the seat as I chewed on a toothpick and scratched my moustache thoughtfully. If I was not going to cut it as a respectable relationship consultant with vast experience in handling complicated divorce settlements, at the very least I was going to look and behave like one. My mind rushed back to one year ago when I stumbled on him coming from our house at the invitation of the same DS and I gave him a stern warning never to be seen in the vicinity of 8th floor. He must have forgotten all about it in this moment of heartbreak. “Tell me more about it,” I urged him on as calmly as I could. At this moment I feel like a real Aunt Dolly complete with a wig and big rimmed spectacles. I lowered the radio volume and tapped my fingers thoughtfully on the steering wheel as he went on for a full hour, narrating his tribulations in the hands of our DS. “I will speak to her. I am very sorry for all the pain and anguish that she has caused you. .” I tried to keep my voice calm although I was almost breaking out with laughter. He seemed contented and thankful, and he walked away with hunched shoulders. He was a man who had lost his love and all the secondary benefits that came with it. I was well aware that while we were away at work, the DS would sometimes entertain him in the main house. This explained the higher than normal depletion of milk and eggs from the fridge. When the sun came up and our DS had completed her daily chores she would join him at the sentry where they sat close together and conversed animatedly in their mother tongue. He was going to miss all that. It was a case of love gone sour. I have been there before and I identified with his predicament. I swallowed hard and turned up the volume to a rock beat. As I climbed the stairs to 8th floor an idea came up that I should start a relationship column and put all my hidden talent to good use. I am still waiting to see if Wafula will come for a follow-up session.   Nothing seems to come cheap, including personal freedom.