South African supermarkets chain Shoprite is set to open its doors at City Mall in Mombasa County, a move that will change the dynamics of retail business at the coastal city. Ideal Locations Limited, owners of the City Mall building, noted that Shoprite has more than 2,800 outlets in 15 African countries. It will be the first international supermarket to open an outlet outside Nairobi. DOSE OF FRESHNESS Ideal Locations director Anish Doshi said: “This will be the first international supermarket in Mombasa. Residents should expect a variety of products when it opens its doors." He said the retailer will "inject freshness" in the retail business in Mombasa. Some residents are upbeat about the development and say they will get products which local retailers lack. “I am very happy and optimistic. The supermarket will cater to all our shopping needs,” said a resident identified only as Salma. Nelly said she used to love shopping at City Mall and would be "really excited" to go back. “I’m happy that Shoprite is expected to open. I will start visiting City Mall again because I think they will have a wide selection of products and most importantly, they will be well stocked." Mr Doshi said they have already signed an agreement with Shoprite, which will be their anchor tenant beginning March next year. NAKUMATT CASE In May, struggling retail chain Nakumatt got a reprieve after a court ordered its reinstatement to City Mall on condition that it paid Sh74.4 million rent arrears. Justice Charles Yano directed Nakumatt Holdings Limited, the parent company, and its Managing Director Atul Shah to pay the debt within 30 days to Ideal Locations in order to be allowed back. Justice Yano, of the Environment and Land Court in Mombasa, also ordered that upon payment, the supermarket would be reinstated and pay rent whenever it fell due. “Failure by the applicants to comply with the order, the respondent be at liberty to allow a new tenant to take up occupation of the premises,” said Justice Yano. In his ruling, the judge said the rights of Ideal Locations to earn income from the premises must be considered. On March 5, the court issued an order directing Nakumatt Supermarkets to vacate the premises as it did not meet the conditions.   Nairobi has been named as one of the top five cities in Sub-Saharan Africa, having the largest shopping centre development outside of South Africa, according to a new report.