Host Kakamega Homeboyz enhanced their chances of a top 10 finish in this season's SportPesa Premier League after a 1-0 win over Sony Sugar at Mumias Sports Complex on Wednesday. Forward Wycliffe Opondo powered home the solitary goal for the home side in the first half in a match that saw international Allan Wanga warm the bench. It was sweet victory for Homeboyz, who lost 4-1 to Sofapaka FC at Narok Stadium last Wednesday. The victory pushed Homeboyz to 46 points after 32 matches, as Sony remain on 39 points after playing the same number of matches in the 18-team league. Sony coach Patrick Odhiambo blamed his forwards for wasting numerous scoring opportunities that came their way. “We had clear chances to score especially in the first half, but poor finishing cost us the match,” he said. Homeboyz tactician Paul Nkata was elated at his team’s victory. “We could not afford to lose the match at this crucial moment. The boys played well and I look forward to winning the remaining fixtures,” he added. Homeboyz dominated the first half as they relentlessly mounted raids at their opponent’s goal mouth with striker Keipahs Mutuu missing the target after he beat defender Michael Apudo only to shoot wide. After a see-saw start, Mutuu put through Opondo in the box to hit the back of net in the 28th minute. A counter attack from Sony saw Maxwell Onyango combine well upfront with Enock Agwanda with latter's shot on the edge of the box parried over the cross bar by Homeboyz keeper David Juma. After half time, Sony, who last won the league title in 2006, played with more intensity and they could have equalised in the 50th minute when Agwanda’s shot was contained by custodian Juma. Centre referee Felix Ekai was forced to issue a yellow card to second half substitute Ambose Ayoyi, after a dangerous tackle on Opondo in the 62nd minute. Both sides made substitutions as the second half advanced. Sony tactician Odhiambo brought on Collins Neto for Ezekiel Otuoma. Nkata on the other hand, introduced Benjamin Oketch and Masikidi Mata for Ali Bai and Estone Eisiye respectively.   Victory for Tusker takes their points tally to 50.