The Kenya Ferry Service (KFS) and Trapos Limited have signed an agreement for the implementation of the Likoni cable car project. The building of the cable cars, expected to ease travel between the North Coast and South Coast, is to start in the next 60 to 90 days. This follows conclusion of negotiations between KFS as the contracting authority and Trapos Ltd, a consortium incorporating Kenya’s Trapos and Doppelmayr Garaventa Group, an Australian Company as the private partner. The contract will see the consortium design, construct, finance, operate and maintain the cable car facilities over the Likoni channel on a Public Private Partnerships )PPP) model. The project will run for 25 years after which the project and its assets including revenue will revert to the contracting authority, KFS. PROVING EFFICIENT Among the expected benefits of the project is providing an efficient, reliable and safe alternative to the ferry crossing along the channel, improved security, increased tourism and improved business environment. The signing of the agreement will pave way for the private partner to conclude financing arrangements to enable implementation of the project. The project’s transport capacity is 5,500 passengers per direction per hour. This translates to 11,000 passengers per hour and a total of 187,000 passengers over the 17 hours in a day. Speaking during the ceremony today, Kenya Ferry Service Managing Director, Bakari Gowa said the project will go a long way in enabling KFS deliver superior transport service along the channel. 350,000 COMMUTERS ‘‘Currently 350,000 commuters cross the Likoni channel daily. This puts a strain to the vessels we already have. With the growing population, we are happy to increase the alternatives and capacity of transporting our people across the channel in a safe, efficient, reliable and secure manner,” said Mr Bakari. Acting PPP Unit Director Judith Nyakawa, applauded this development, noting that the project will greatly enhance transport between the island and the mainland as well as add to the tourism fortunes. Trapos Limited has promised that that the project will offer Kenyans an amazing experience crossing the channel. “What we are offering is a modern and efficient aerial cable connection between the island and the mainland with spectacular views on that short journey. We are bringing in superior technology in running cable cars,” said Gerald Muigai, Executive Chairman, Likoni Cable Express Ltd and Trapos Ltd Director.   Passengers moving into and out of Mombasa Island through the Likoni Channel will spend only a third of the time to cross.