Nairobi ward representatives have turned up the heat for the executive to make public the list of beneficiaries of the county's bursary kitties. The Members of County Assembly (MCAs) claimed that the issuing of funds has been turned into a political tool for punishing those perceived to be from political outfits other than the ruling Jubilee Party. DEMANDS The MCAs want a comprehensive report prepared on the amount disbursed under the special kitty, the beneficiaries, the amounts they received and the balance. Kariobangi South MCA Robert Mbatia claimed on Wednesday out that pupils from his ward never received money from the governor’s kitty during former Governor Evans Kidero's four years in office. “I never knew that there were executive bursaries as no member of my ward ever benefited from them from 2013. So we need to have regulations to discourage what happened in the previous administration,” Mr Mbatia told the assembly’s Education committee. Makongeni MCA Peter Imwatok complained that Governor Mike Sonko's administration de-listed beneficiaries from Kidero’s administration, alleging that the process was done because of political affiliations. “Those who benefited previously have been de-listed. It is not their fault that Kidero is no longer a governor. No child in this country has been affiliated with any political party,” said Mr Imwatok. WITCH-HUNT Nyayo Highrise MCA Kennedy Oyugi complained that the kitty has been turned into a tool for political witch-hunt so its essence has been eroded. “These students are neither [Mike] Sonko nor Kidero’s pupils. They need not be subjected to the kind of suffering they are going through,” Mr Oyugi said, adding the fund is meant to benefit only the rich but needy, but that the money is being given to the rich. Earlier this year, City Hall cancelled the Nairobi City County Scholarship Fund, launched by Dr Kidero two years ago. The fund, which benefited 3, 000 pupils, was cancelled pending the completion of an audit of the beneficiaries as allegations of fraud were raised. DEFENCE Appearing before the Education committee, Education executive Janet Ouko absolved the executive from blame, citing financial constraints as the kitty had only Sh100 million. Ms Ouko said they have spent Sh60 million on the new beneficiaries who are currently in Form One at various secondary schools. She explained that the kitty benefits 10, 030 students, who are among the top three from each of the 205 public primary schools in Nairobi and are proposed by their head teachers. “There is no law saying that you have to be supported for the entire four years. If your own regulations are not capturing everything then the matter is neither here nor there. I have tabled this for the cabinet to consider some of those who were dropped,” said Ms Ouko. Chair of the committee and Kayole North MCA Samuel Ng’ang’a directed the executive to provide a reconciled list of all beneficiaries of all bursary kitties in the county. He also gave instruction for an audit and the provision of a timeline for the education executive to create regulations to cure the mess.   The money was wired to an account held by Maryland University in Australia.