Kenya Ports Authority men and women's basketball teams face a tough weekend outing when they host USIU and Ulinzi in the Kenya Basketball Federation Premier League matches at the KPA Makande hall. While KPA women will have a date with unpredictable former champions USIU Flames and Kenyatta University's Oryx Saturday and Sunday respectively, the men will be hosting USIU and tough Ulinzi Warriors on Saturday and Sunday. KPA women, who have so far lost two matches against Storms and Equity Hawks, will be in no mood to lose any points again, while the male counterparts, the only unbeaten side in the Premiership, will not only be seeking to remain unbeaten at home, but also finish their home matches with a hundred percent record. The weekend matches will be a perfect chance for the KPA teams to fine tune ahead of the Fiba Zone Five Club Championships which tip off in Tanzania next weekend. In Nairobi, Equity Bank will confront Blades of Strathmore University in a potentially tight men’s match at United States International University of Africa in Nairobi on Sunday. The Hawks will be seeking to maintain their winning run after humiliating champion KPA 48-42, when they host Kakamega-based Western Delight at the same venue from 12pm. Hot shooting guard Hilda Indasi and aggressive Belinda Akoth are still in top gear to harvest maximum two points against bottom placed coach Donald Liru’s Western Delight. On Saturday at USIU-A, Footprints, who narrowed their chances of qualifying for the eight-team play-offs quarter finals after Strathmore University whitewashed them 60-21 last weekend, will take on Eagle Wings. Captain Purity Wachira must rise to the occasion to steer Footprints to victory as they seek a place in the play-offs on their first attempt. KPA men have been in the roll with back court trio of Victor Odendo, Victor Ochieng and Victor Bosire proving too hot to handle for any oppositionm while Arou Ramadhan, Martin Kitongo, James Mwangi and Ben Omondi proving untouchables on the front court controlling both the offensive and defensive rebounds making it literary impossible for any team to dominate the paints. Their women will be playing without shooting guards Betty Kananu and Seline Okumu, who have decamped to rivals Equity Bank women but coach Anthony Ojukwu believes he has enough arsenal. Fixtures Saturday At USIU-A: Riara University v JKUAT (9am), Little Prince v Nebulas (10.30am), MKU Thika v Egerton University (12pm), Eagle Wings v Footprints (12pm), Zetech University v KDF Morans ( 1.30pm), Strathmore University v Western Delight (1.30pm), ANU v Pirates (3pm), ANU v Egerton University (3pm), World Hope v Ulinzi Warriors (4.30pm), Oryx v Masaku Sparks (4.30pm). At KPA Makande Gymnasium: Coastal Kings v Blazers (10am), Baobab v Neosasa (12pm), KPA v USIU-A Flames (2pm), KPA v USIU-A Tigers (4pm). Kenyatta Sports Ground: Lady Bucks v Egerton University (10am)Sunday At USIU-A: JKUAT v MKU Thika (9am), Upper Hill School v KAA (9am), Riara University v Nebulas (10.30am), Pirates v Lions (10.30am), Equity Bank v Western Delight (12pm), Zetech University v Emyba (12pm), ANU v Nakuru Club (1.30pm), Zetech University v Footprints (1.30pm), Terrorists v Zetech Titans (3pm), Upper Hill School v Nebulas (3pm), Equity Bank v Blades (4.30pm), JKUAT v Gladiators (4.30pm). At KPA Makande hall: Coastal Kings v Neosasa (10am), Baobab v Blazers (12pm), KPA v Oryx (2pm)  