The next day, Thursday, I wake up determined to have a super day just as I determined to have a restful night last night, despite my troubles – and I did. I stride into the office, laptop bag in one hand, cup of coffee in the other, humming a song as I go along. I don’t look towards Chris’ office lest I see him and crumble. Instead, when I get to my desk, I call Ciru. “What’s on the schedule for today?” I ask. “Well, Chris called and said he would be out for most of the day so I guess it’s back to doing marketing things.” I nod and put down the phone; I do need to look at some sales data from our head office in London to see how things are stacking up and what we can implement, but first, there is an important phone call I need to make. “Hi Louise,” I say when she picks up the phone. “Liz!” she yelps. “It’s been a while.” “Indeed,” I reply as we catch up on things – her, baby, Steve who is surprisingly still in the picture despite all of his personal dramas. “So I’ll be back next week,” she says. “I hope you’re all ready for me.” “Yes,” I laugh. “I personally can’t wait for you to get here. Listen, Louise, there’s something I need to ask you.” “Mmhmm?” she urges. “I was wondering if, perhaps, you would like to transition out of being a personal assistant to maybe coming into marketing. We’ve worked together for so long that you can practically do my job for me, but I wanted to know if you would formally take up the opportunity so that we can start getting you some formal marketing education.” “Oh, yes!” she yelps. “I’m ready, I am so ready!” I can hear her beaming on the other side of the line, and I feel warmth wash all over my heart at being able to help someone else. “And how have your therapy sessions been going?” I ask her. Louise sighs. “If you’re worried about my ability to handle the job, don’t be. I have been doing my talk therapy and I am feeling very strong and capable.” I remember the last time I saw Louise, when her post-partum depression had really messed her up. I am glad to hear that she is doing well. “I’m not worried,” I reassure her. “I am just want to make sure all your health needs are taken care of while you resume your position.” “Thank you Liz,” she says. We chit chat some more and then I am forced to say my goodbyes and hang up when I hear my phone extension ringing. I put down my cell phone and pick up the landline. “So, when are you going to sign my order forms?” the booming voice on the other end says. I can recognize Frank’s voice anywhere. “Good morning Frank, how are you?” I say. “Good morning. When will my paperwork be ready?” he says sternly. “I don’t believe that that is my responsibility at the moment,” I tell him quite honestly. “You’ll have to speak to Chris when he comes in.” “I just called him and he asked me to speak to you.” Hm… how very premature, I think to myself; I haven’t assumed the MD position yet which means I cannot authorise anything. “Do me a favour and go and pick up the papers from his office and sign them, then bring them here.” I bristle; I can feel my face turning red. “Excuse me Frank, but I don’t take orders from you,” I point out. Frank laughs sarcastically. “Now how do you expect work to get done when you are so full of attitude? Wanawake wa siku hizi, heh!” And now I am full blown angry and I can’t control myself. “Listen. I don’t care what you think about women but right here, right now, you will respect me and my position otherwise I will see to it that you are replaced.” “Madam, just know that you will leave before me if you anyone is to leave,” Frank says, and then he hangs up, leaving me stewing in my anger for a good, long minute.   Liz has her first day on her new job, but can she and Chris put aside their drama for this?