Berlin Marathon champion and new world record holder Eliud Kipchoge quietly jetted back into the country on Thursday. Nation Sport learnt this through a reliable source, who saw the 33-year-old leave the Eldoret International Airport at around 3pm. Kipchoge smashed the previous world record held by compatriot Dennis Kimetto of 2:02:57 by a massive one minutes and 16 seconds, clocking 2 hours, 01 minute and 39 seconds to retain his Berlin Marathon title on Sunday. Efforts to reach him and his coach bore no fruit as their phones were switched off. Unlike other athletes, Kipchoge has always avoided fanfare upon his arrival in the country from international events. “Upon his arrival, Kipchoge took his luggage and boarded a Toyota Premio saloon car that was on standby before it sped off to an unknown location,” said the source. Kipchoge, who won in Berlin in 2015, edged out compatriot Amos Kipruto (2:06:20) to second place, as the 2013 Berlin Marathon champion Wilson Kipsang settled for third position after clocking 2:06:47. In the women's category, Gladys Cherono, who is also the 2014 World Half Marathon champion, beat Ethiopians Ruti Aga and multiple world and Olympic champion Tirunesh Dibaba, who settled for second and third places in 2:18:34 and 2:18:55 respectively. According to the Chief Officer-in-charge of Sports in Nandi County Kennedy Tanui, the Olympic champion will be hosted to a breakfast meeting on Monday by Governor Stephen Sang, before later commissioning the Eliud Kipchoge Sports Complex in Kapsabet. “Deputy President William Ruto will be the chief guest at this event,” said Tanui. The athlete will later be honoured for his enviable achievements at the Berlin Marathon. Isuzu is also expected to reward the athlete with a brand new double cabin for his personal use, apart from the one he uses for training. “We are going to keep our promise of rewarding Kipchoge the new Isuzu Dmax luxury double cabin. He recently renewed his contract for two years and we are proud to associate with him,” said Isuzu East Africa's Communications Manager Dancan Muhindi.  