Former Lugari MP Cyrus Jirongo will remain in police custody until Thursday, when he is expected to raise the Sh5 million cash bail to secure his freedom. Deputy Registrar Elizabeth Tanui directed that he remain in custody until 1pm, when he is expected to have raised the money for his release. REMAND The court directed that the flamboyant politician be taken to remand prison should he fail to pay the Sh5 million. Businessman Bryan Yongo wants him jailed for failing to settle a Sh20 million debt. The warrant for Mr Jirongo's arrest was issued by the court on August 6 and the OCS Muthangari police station had been directed to execute it speedily. Mr Jirongo earlier agreed to pay the debt saying he would prioritise it he was going to give it priority after selling his 500 acres of land in Ruai, Nairobi County, and another five acres in Kisumu. He had also been expecting compensation from the Nairobi government for a plot in Industrial Area. CIVIL JAIL The accused's failure to settle the debt prompted Mr Yongo to apply for warrants for his arrest. He want Mr Jirongo committed to civil jail for failing to pay the debt which was advanced in 2014. The two had in 2015, agreed that the amount will be settled in three installments. “Mr Jirongo was to pay Sh5 million by October 15, 2015 then follow up with installments of Sh5 million and the final installment within 60 days but he has failed to honour the consent,” Mr Yongo says in court papers. The application by Mr Yongo followed one by Central Organisation of Trade Unions Secretary-General Francis Atwoli, who is demanding Sh110 million from Mr Jirongo. The court had found Mr Jirongo personally liable to pay Mr Atwoli and had directed him to do so but the debt is yet to be settled. REFUSAL Mr Atwoli says that following an agreement on August 10, 2017, he advanced Sh100 million to the influential Nyayo-era politician, payable in 50 days with an interest of Sh10 million. The former MP allegedly made an undertaking on October 10, admitting his indebtedness to Mr Atwoli and undertook repayment. But Mr Atwoli said: "Despite the demand, Mr Jirongo has totally refused, failed and ignored effecting payment as per the terms of the agreement." In default of a refund or repayment, Mr Atwoli was at liberty to enforce repayment against Mr Jirongo personally, or use any property belonging to him to recover the full sum due with an interest of 25 per cent per year as well as costs.   Loan from businessman Brian Yongo haunts former presidential candidate.