Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi has lashed out at unnamed politicians from outside the former Western province who he claims are using young leaders to divide the Luhya community. Mr Mudavadi said he is concerned that a crop of leaders from the region are pushing him to continue supporting ODM leader Raila Odinga while others want him to back Deputy President William Ruto. Mr Mudavadi, who was controversially named Luhya spokesman last year by Central Organisation of Trade Unions boss Francis Atwoli, has been pushing for Luhya unity ahead of the 2022 poll. He said it was ‘dishonest' for local politicians to be mouthpieces of outsiders. Other leaders fronting the initiative are Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula, Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka and Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa. SUPPORT RUTO The proponents of the unity bid have in the past said Kakamega Senator Cleopas Malala, nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi, ODM secretary-general Edwin Sifuna and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya are agents of Mr Odinga, whom they said are working to scuttle efforts to unite the community. The leaders have been appealing to Mr Mudavadi and his group to work with Mr Odinga. On the other hand, others led Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Echesa, Mr Lusaka and Mr Wamalwa have asked Mr Mudavadi to work with Mr Ruto in 2022. But in a statement, Mr Mudavadi asked such leaders to keep their 'unsolicited counsel'. “They should stop lecturing me. I have been in politics long enough to know you are not honest but a megaphone for someone else,” said Mr Mudavadi. DIVISION On Saturday, during the burial of former Education principal secretary George Godia, Mr Lusaka — who represented Mr Ruto — asked the Luhya community to consider working with Mr Ruto, whom he described as “our neighbour”. At the same forum, Sirisia MP John Waluke was jeered by mourners when he asked the community to consider playing second fiddle in the coming poll. But on Monday, Mr Mudavadi described such utterances as a ploy to divide the community. “The impression that we are not united is meant to make us unattractive for the presidency, other than as supporters. They don’t want us to reach out to other Kenyans,” Mr Mudavadi said.  