Look up at most apartments and you will realise that balconies are among the most neglected parts of the house. While some people use them to store unused house items, others don’t give them much thought. But with a little effort, balconies can offer you amazing breathing space and a perfect area to relax. Whether you have a big or small balcony, there are several innovative ideas that you can adapt to give it a spanking new look. Here are a few ways to create a beautiful balcony.  Herb garden: If you want a more functional balcony, you can start a herb garden right there. Herbs such as basil, thyme, mint, sage, oregano and lavender grow well. However, it will depend on sunlight, space and weather. The good thing about most herbs is that they don’t require any special treatment, as long as the conditions are favourable. All they need is regular watering. Although clay pots are recommended for herb gardens, you can still plant them in plastic pots, crates or wooden planters. Hanging flower baskets: Have you ever thought of the aesthetic look you could give your balcony with some hooks and hanging baskets? All you need to do is get the height right, ensuring that they can be seen and touched but avoid hanging them so low that they hit people on the head. Don’t have hanging baskets? No need to worry. You can make use of paint cans. Spray them for that magical transformation. Alternative rest area: The size of your balcony will determine the type and size of furniture to use. If you have a big balcony, you can consider having several outdoor chairs and tables. However, if you have limited space, using foldable chairs is the best solution as they can be easily removed to create more space. Outdoor Curtains: A balcony can be a perfect place for candlelit dinners or having private conversations. However, you don’t want your neighbours being part of this, so have outdoor curtains. Railing planters: If you live in an apartment where you are not allowed to make holes or use the balcony to hang your clothes, you can still make it look beautiful by making use of railing planters. This could be a plastic or wooden box. Accentuate the walls: You can add interest to your balcony walls with an artwork or outdoor weathered material wall hanging. To complement the walls, you can use matching cushions on a divan. Hang a hammock: This provides the perfect space to relax without crowding the balcony. Here you can read a book or even take an afternoon siesta. However, ensure that it is securely fastened so that you don’t fall off. Lighting: You can do this by hanging traditional lanterns, or placing lamps to create a calm atmosphere, especially in the evening. Alternatively, you can make use of coloured light bulbs for a similar effect. Pillows and cushions: One of the simplest and cheapest ways to bring life to your balcony area is by use of outdoor pillows and cushions. You can custom make them to match the colour of the wall.   Interior decor calls for just the right mix of functionality and beauty.