Chromebooks are controversial in some ways. A lite operating system on a lightweight machine can be hard to justify, but then again, a lot of whatever is done on a computer happens through a browser, so it is not implausible. Thus, Chrome OS is justified. However, like every other Operating System (OS), Chrome OS needs hardware and this is where the HP Chromebook fits in. This new Chromebook is a model in just how Chromebooks should be made. It runs on Intel’s seventh Gen Intel Core m3-7Y30, backed by 4GB of RAM and an Intel HD Graphics 615 processing unit. Storage isn’t plenty, at 32GB, though it is expandable via the multi-format SD media card reader. The 12.3-inch display is backlit, supports touch, and has a resolution of 2400 x 1600 pixels. It has plenty when it comes to connectivity, with ‘AC’ WiFi supported, as well as Bluetooth 4.2 for peripherals. Other ports include 2 USB Type-C Gen 1 ports and the combo audio jack. HP have added an active pointing device, a fancy way of saying a touch-pen or stylus, whichever you prefer. VERY WELL DONE There is a rear-facing 13MP camera while front facing is a HP Wide Vision 5MP and an IR Camera that is integrated with a microphone. That’s pretty much it. Or is it? The build-quality on this is the first thing you note. It is very well done, and it looks it. The keyboard detaches and does indeed feel heavy when it’s on, but, it is a ridiculously brilliant keyboard, though screen will wobble from time to time. Then, the Intel arrangement inside works very well, bringing out very high performance. The audio speakers on it come with Bang & Olufsen certification, and quality. Chrome OS itself has come a long way from what it used to be and is now a refined platform that it’s pretty usable. Many people who switch to Chrome OS find it hard to go back to a full OS. That being said, the real story is with the 48WH battery. HP have brought a good one that delivers up to 12.5 hours on a single charge, more than adequate for an ordinary user. It is also a good machine for gaming once you get apps on it, via the Play Store. It is difficult to get past that this is a Sh 60,000 machine, seemingly pricey for a Chromebook, and it is, but, this is what you want to get if you want a straightforward machine. It is built to last with its exemplary workmanship, and will give you years or rock solid performance, and with a stripped OS, will always be a delight.   It isn’t a cheap mid-range phone, but it is certainly worth the cost.