Nairobi County Governor Mike Sonko has dismissed an ultimatum by Members of the County Assembly requiring him to shift his operations from his Mua Hills home to City Hall. Mr Sonko, who said that he will not be intimidated, vowed to continue working from his Mua Hills home. "From Nairobi to this place (Mua Hills) is barely 25 minutes’ drive. I will not leave this place because it is my home. Even the President (Uhuru Kenyatta) operates from State House. He does not always operate from Harambee House," said Mr Sonko outside his late father Kioko Kivanguli’s mausoleum in Mua, Machakos, on Friday. Mr Sonko said it did not matter where he worked from as long as he performed his duties and delivered services to Nairobi city residents. RETURN TO THE CITY The MCAs on Thursday gave Governor Sonko 14 days to return his operations to the city, failure to which they would summon him to explain why he cannot operate from City Hall. Mr Sonko has been operating from his home since May when he claimed his security had been withdrawn. He said he had been consulting with the MCAs and had been visiting various wards to launch development projects in the recent past. He challenged the MCAs to go ahead and impeach him, adding there were other avenues of overturning such eventualities. Mr Sonko also dismissed the assembly's demand to nominate his deputy saying he had done what the Supreme Court had advised. REJECTED MIGUNA'S MOMINATION "The supreme Court advisory opinion was clear that I nominate a deputy governor within 14 days from the date of the advisory. I did that and nominated (Dr) Miguna Miguna whom the assembly rejected, "said Mr Sonko. READ: Sonko’s woes expose unease in Jubilee Mr Sonko said he may go back to the Supreme Court to seek further guidance. He said he was not to blame for the stalemate as he had also nominated four other persons for consideration by the assembly. Mr Sonko said the appointment of the deputy governor requires consultation with his Jubilee Party and other leaders. READ: Sonko: I have not fled from Nairobi Governor Sonko spoke during a free medical camp for organised fro Mua Hills residents at Kathimani Primary School The exercise was conducted by doctors from the Lion's Club and Doctors Without Borders. MEDICAL CAMP Mr Larry Wambua, a resident of Mua who is also the Environment Executive in Nairobi County, said the medical camp was not a county government event but was organised by Governor Sonko who is a resident of Mua. Mr Sonko said he would pay the doctors’ allowances. Some Cuban doctors were also involved in the two-day camp which started on Friday. The residents thanked Governor Sonko for the initiative.   Nairobi County Assembly votes to impeach Speaker Beatrice Elachi.