How many women would want to take part in a sport in which they could end up with a damaged brain, broken nose, black eye or torn lips? How many would agree to get punched in front of an audience? Well, the epic fight for the World Super Bantamweight title between Kenyan Fatuma Zarika and Mexican Yamileth Mercado on Saturday evening called such thoughts to mind even as Zarika won in a 2-1 split points decision to retain her title. This was Zarika’s second title defence, having outclassed former WBC bantamweight champion Catherine Phiri from Zambia in December 2017 at Carnivore Restaurant, Nairobi. And it was not the first time the mother of two was fighting since then. Against 20-year-old Mercado, Zarika, 34, was an overwhelming favourite as her record before Saturday’s bout read 29 wins, 12 losses and two draws, while Mercado's was 12-1-0. HUGE TURNOUT For long term boxing lovers, the story was about how refreshingly different this fight was from the other bouts in which women’s contests were staged outside prime time and in dingy halls before a handful of spectators. They drew little interest. Saturday’s event uncharacteristically captured the attention of Kenyans as occasioned by the huge turnout at Kenyatta International Convention Centre, the thousands who stayed up late to follow the action on television and social media discussions that went on deep into the night. Zarika, who has previously blasted the country's sports administrators for neglect, promoters for their con games and fans for their apathy, said after her victory that she had never witnessed that kind of support in her 15-year career. MASSIVE SUPPORT “I want to really thank my sponsors for everything they have done. In all my years of fighting, I have never seen a crowd this huge. I have never been accorded the kind of support I have seen during this period and I just want to ask Kenyans to continue believing in pugilists," the world champion said. "I want to encourage fellow boxers to keep pushing in spite of the challenges.” The story was also about how contrasting the boxers were to each other. Zarika was the typical boxer of heavy muscle build, complete with tomboy mannerisms while Mercado was the modern day female pugilist who wore make-up, had her hair done in girlish cornrows, had little muscle and who cared little about “looking tough” as she allowed herself to be photographed crying at the end of the fight. TASTE OF COMBAT In fact, the focus on Mercado’s appearance prompted her to declare before the contest that she was “here to fight and not to model”. “I have heard a lot of comments from people wondering if I am the boxer who will slug with Zarika. Let me say this, looks can be deceiving and Zarika knows well," she said when the Nation paid her a visit on Wednesday last week. "Let them not look at my face. That has nothing to do with what I will do in the ring.” Indeed, women’s boxing is not easy to sell. It is a sport that requires one to admit that she likes aggression, relishes the taste of combat, thrives on rage and enjoys exchanging punches. CHANGE ATTITUDE Boxing in general is also considered a bloodthirsty and dangerous sport and there have been several attempts to ban it. Saturday’s fight, however showed that packaged well, women’s boxing can attract just as much interest as men’s, societal stereotypes notwithstanding. Boyle Kluimper, a Germany-based promoter, said such events help change attitudes within and outside boxing. "A fight like this gives women role models as it shows them that it is not just about getting punched and injured. And that you do not need to have a masculine body to be a boxer,” he said.   She was unanimously voted by a panel of journalists.