Samburu leaders have defended Agriculture Permanent Secretary Dr Richard Lesiyampe over corruption allegations. The leaders have asked Deputy President William Ruto to engage President Uhuru Kenyatta in talks with a view to dropping all charges against Dr Lesiyampe. Speaking during the Maralal International Camel Derby, in Yare Camel Camp, Samburu North MP Alois Lentoimaga said that Dr Lesiyampe was innocent. He said that the PS does not directly handle money from the National Treasury. BUY MAIZE "Last year, the same government ordered the ministry (Agriculture) to buy all available maize in the country, why are they now accusing Dr Lesiyampe? " he wondered. "We want all charges against Dr Lesiyampe dropped, they are malicious. The President has powers to order a nolle prosequi  (stop proceedings) and he should do that as soon as Monday," he said. Samburu Central MP Naisula Lesuuda said that even as they support the fight against corruption, the law should be followed. "The law should be followed and (Dr) Lesiyampe should be reinstated if found innocent," she said. AMBUSH PEOPLE Area Woman Representative Maison Leshoomo said that investigations by the Senate Agriculture Committee did not find the PS guilty. "It is hurting to ambush and arrest people on the wee hours of the morning when they are with their families," Ms Leshoomo said. Governor Moses Lenolkulal said there should be no malice in the fight against corruption. "Such harassment will spoil people's careers, we have systems to fight corruption decently," he noted. Mr Lenolkulal added that people's reputations are being destroyed when summons are issued through the media. COURT SUMMONS He said that only those who fail to honour court summons or calls to the DCI should be arrested. The Deputy President said that the law will always be followed in the government's war on corruption. He said that the war on graft is will ensure that the government eliminates wastage and mismanagement of public resources. "Everyone will be given a fair hearing," Mr Ruto said.   List of 21 traders said to have been paid huge amounts of money after delivering grains to NCPB dismissed.