Once in a while, I come across romantic movies that makes me reconsider my preference for action-packed flicks.Adriftis one such movie. I was first drawn to it by the poster because it reminded me a little of The Life of Pi and In The Heart of The Sea. The movie is based on real life events that happened to Tami Oldham (played by Shailene Woodley). In September 1983, Tami and her fiancé Richard Sharp (portrayed by Sam Claflin) wanted to see the world. Tragedy would befall them, however, as they attempted to cross the Pacific Ocean in a 44-foot yacht from Tahiti to San Diego. Tami is 23-year-old American drifter. She has been living off menial jobs in her trail as she tries to get as far away from home as she can. She is in Tahiti to start yet another phase of her wanderer life until she can earn enough money to move farther still. She gets a job as a yacht cleaner. One day her paths and Richard’s cross while he’s bringing in his to dock. Their chemistry kicks off almost instantly. The following day, she goes to see the British sailor and they plan a date later that night. During that date, Richard tells her about his journeys around the world, all done on his yacht. HEAD OVER HEELS They fall head over heels in love and decide to start planning to travel the world together in similar fashion and create memories together, as Richard shows Tami the ropes in the meantime. They later embark on a 6,500 km (3,500 nautical miles) delivery passage of 44 ft (13 m) yacht Hazana from Tahiti to San Diego. It is while they are performing this task that they run into Hurricane Raymond and the yacht is battered. Now they have to keep afloat and, without radio service, hope that they will make it to Hawaii before their rations run out. Oh, and all this Tami has to do while still having to look after a gravely injured Richard. I’m a sucker for true stories and, for some reason, movies where there are a few characters running in and out of shot or dialoguing. I enjoyed this movie immensely. I had ample time with the two characters and got to understand who they are, what drives them, and what their fears were (well,  besides drowning or dying from hunger). This was simply acting on the basis of dialogue, mannerisms and body language. Simply put, it was pure acting. You may remember Shailene Woodley from the Divergent series of movies. She was good in this movie too. Of course, we know that she can act a range of emotions including desperation and fear from the trilogy, but in this one she put on a very powerful performance. Kudos to writers David Branson Smith, Aaron Kandell and Jordan Kandell for putting up such a riveting drama from Tami’s ordeal. Soon as I saw him, I remembered Sam Claflin as Phillip Swift (the compassionate preacher from Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides. I am not sure if he goes for these roles on purpose because in this movie he is also a soft-spoken, caring and selfless character. You see honesty in him and you feel sorry for him. You can see he wants to help Tami but he can’t. The movie has some very slow points, and you’d be forgiven for thinking that it has lost its oomph after starting so explosively. It is all worth it, however, if you hang in there to see it through these bumps.   'The Meg' is an adaptation of Steve Alten's Meg: A Novel of Deep Terror (1997) .