A family in Kenyenya, Kisii County, is distraught after their daughter, a candidate at Sengera SDA Secondary School, was lured to her death. Alvina Moracha, 17, was revising for her exams on Sunday night when a person suspected to be her former boyfriend lured her out into the night. Her body was discovered in a fish pond on Monday. Her widowed mother, Ms Rabera Moracha, said they are yet to determine the motive of the killing, although they suspect her former boyfriend, a body boda operator, planned it. She is still reeling from the shock of losing her daughter so suddenly. INVESTIGATIONS Security agencies in the sub-county were Tuesday trying to piece together relatives' accounts as they began investigations. “We have begun investigations and are looking at all angles so that we get the truth before we get the right suspect,” OCPD Isaac Thuranira told the Nation. He said they were informed by the Sengera Mariba chief that a fish farmer in his area had found the body of a female being floating in his fish pond. “It was after we removed it that the villagers positively recognised it as that of the 17-year student. We urge patience as we try to get more information that can help us get the suspect,” Mr Thuranira said. POST-MORTEM He added that they are waiting for a post-mortem report to know whether she was molested before she was strangled. Alvina's mother and her sister, Emma Moracha, went to bed and left her studying. When Emma returned to the sitting room at about 11:30 and found her gone, she thought Alvina had gone to sleep with their mother. But they realised she was missing, and that the door was locked from outside. Emma told the Nation that her sister had intimated her that she had a boyfriend from whom she had separated and was threatening her. "Since then, they two have had run-ins, with the man threatening her for leaving him. We suspect he is the one who lured her out, and led her to her death," Ms Moracha said. BOOKS NOT FOUND The books the Alvina was reading have not been found, and they suspect she went with them. They now believe the man was in constant communication with her. Meanwhile, Ms Moracha has called for speedy investigations into the killing of her daughter. “All I want to see are speedy investigations so that he whoever did this can be arrested for so that we get justice’s for my daughter,” she said. Alvina’s uncles Geofrey Ondonga and Evans Ondimu said they want the police to track the killers down and bring them to justice. “We want nothing less of justice. We don’t have much to say,” said Ondonga at the Kenyenya Police Station where they had gone to file the complaint. SCHOOL MOURNS At Sengera Secondary, students and teachers mourned Alvian. School Principal Enock Nyambego said she had not reported for the third term due to what he suspected were fees problems. But he refuted reports that she had been sent home for not paying fees. “We had been waiting for her to report back. Only two days ago, I met her mother and told her to let Alvina come to school. She had trouble paying fees but at no time was she sent home as being reported in the social media,” Mr Nyambego said. He said he was in Kisii town on official duties on Monday morning when he got a call from a police officer from Kenyenya telling him that his student’s body had been found dumped in a fish pond. “Initially I could no figure out who it was because I had left all the students in school. Only later did I realise that it was Alvina. As a school, we are saddened by the incident and we urge the government to conduct thorough investigations,” he said.  