DAR ES SALAAM, President John Magufuli on Saturday said he will not hesitate to dismiss non-performing ambassadors representing Tanzania in various countries. The president said this at State House during the swearing-in ceremony of new government leaders, including the Deputy Minister for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, East Africa, Regional and International Cooperation, Dr Damas Ndumbalo. WARNING About four days ago, the head of state sacked Dr Susan Kolimba from the post but did not state immediately why. Earlier, a statement by State House Director of Communication, Mr Gerson Msigwa, said the president had also appointed Dr Fariji Kasidi Mnyepe as the permanent secretary of the ministry. Dr Mnyape replaced Professor Adolf Mkenda who has been transferred to the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism. They were sworn in at State House in Dar es Salaam during an event that was televised live by the national broadcaster TBC1. Shortly after swearing-in the new leaders, President Magufuli said, “I have appointed you [Dr Ndumbalo] to go and restructure this ministry ... tell ambassadors who are representing Tanzania in other countries to give you a report detailing the a, b, c, d of what they have done to help this country. If not, they should be dismissed and returned home." DISAPPOINTMENT Dr Magufuli expressed his disappointment at the way the ministry was running foreign affairs. He revealed that some countries were writing several letters to enquire on key issues but were receiving poor responses from the ministry. “I have information that the Chinese embassy wrote over 24 letters to the ministry but only two were responded to. I don’t want this to happen again,’’ the president said and told the new deputy minister not to relax on the job. Dr Magufuli explained that it was the duty of the deputy minister of foreign affairs to run the day to day activities of the docket on behalf of the minister, who, at the time of the swearing-in, was representing him at the United Nations General Assembly in New York. “Don’t be driven by directors. It is you who basically has to make things happen at the ministry. As for the minister, this post usually entails that he or she travel outside the country most of the time."   Kolimba says only the appointing authority knows why she was sacked.