Coastal counties under the economic bloc "Jumuiya ya Kaunti za Pwani (JKP)" will in November establish a fund to help in stirring development. Jumuiya's CEO Emmanuel Nzai, speaking to the Nation in Mombasa, said the fund by the six counties will help tackle problems facing them. “We are upbeat about establishing the fund. Each county will also have its own investment company. Tana River has already formed an investment company,” Mr Nzai said. Mombasa, Kilifi, Kwale, Taita Taveta, Lamu and Tana River counties, he said, will contribute money to the fund to ignite growth with the major focus being the blue economy. VISION 2030 He cited poverty, marginalisation, corruption and failed political leadership as the problems rocking the regions. “We need to change the story as we are a sea land of opportunities. We want to work together as universities, industries and county governments to steer the region to prosperity,” Mr Nzai, a strategist, policy and ICT analyst said. The former Dr Ekuru Aukot's presidential running mate in last year’s elections said public universities at the coast: Pwani, Technical University of Mombasa (Tum) and Taita Taveta University are to also form a Jumuiya Institute of Innovations. Mr Nzai said the bloc - which has a secretariat at TUM - will help the national government achieve its Vision 2030 blueprint. OPPORTUNITIES Recently, Kilifi Deputy Governor Gideon Saburi vouched for the common fund for coastal counties and exploitation of the blue economy. “The blue economy is a project that surrounds the coastal counties which have the longest shoreline. We want to ensure we leverage the resource and put all things we need to share with partners and investors so that they can understand what we need as JKP,” Mr Saburi said. He said the blue economy, which involves maritime transport, fisheries and tourism, will help in creating more jobs as well as opening up the region to further development. Taita-Taveta Deputy Governor Majala Mlaghui said the leaders are putting aside their political differences for the sake of growth. She said Jumuiya will focus on attracting investments to ensure the counties develop.  