Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang’ata on Saturday solemnised his marriage to Ms Mary Wambui in a simple wedding graced by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The lawmaker exchanged marital vows and wedding rings with the love of his life at Gathinja Catholic Church in Kiharu Constituency, Murang'a County. Mr Kang’ata was honouring his ailing father's wish to do a church wedding. The couple, which has been living together for eight years, has three children. “I feel very honoured that President Kenyatta has attended this important occasion. I am a very happy man today,” he said. BRIDAL PARTY The couple picked Nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura and his wife Mukami as their best couple. Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro was also part of the party. Other leaders who attended the ceremony included Murang'a Governor Mwangi Wa Iria, Murang’a Woman Representative Wanjiru Chege and several legislators. Mr Kanga’ta revealed that he met his wife, who was then a student at Mugoiri Girls High School, while he was on attachment at a law firm in Murang'a town. The wedding, which was attended by hundreds of Murang’a residents, saw many people locked out of the church which could only accommodate 300 people. The General Service Unit officers, who manned the gates, locked out many Murang'a residents, who were eager to see their senator tie the knot. Journalists were not spared either. “The GSU officers insisted that journalists must have accreditation badges which were never issued,” complained journalists. TRAFFIC DISRUPTED Traffic was disrupted along the Murang'a-Kangema road, forcing motorists to use alternative routes. President Kenyatta caused laughter when he challenged elected leaders, who were still in the bachelor's club, to marry as a way of setting a good example to their electorate. "Marriages give birth to families which are the foundations of the nation and future generations, they should be cherished and kept together. Leaders should get married to become good examples in the society," the President said. On a light note, he told Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro to follow in his predecessor’s footsteps and ‘cross the bridge’. GREAT LEADERS "Murang’a County has produced great leaders including the late (Dr Julius Gikonyo) Kiano and (John) Michuki and had families, Mr Kangata was Kiharu MP for five years and now Mr Nyoro is  serving the electorates of Kiharu and is not married," the President said prompting Mr Nyoro to introduce his fiancée. The President reiterated his commitment to fighting corruption and vowed to ensure prudent use of public resources. “We are happy that the church is supporting us in the fight against graft, our aim is to protect and unite Kenyans,” he said. The President donated a school bus to Mukangu Secondary School and promised Sh5 million for infrastructural development for Gathinja Secondary School as his gift to Senator Kang’ata.   Senate deputy chief whip to marry the love of his life Mary Wambui.