Succession politics, eviction of 9,000 families settled in Mau Forest, clashes brought about by land disputes and cattle rustling incidents are some of the myriad issues hampering peace efforts in Narok South Sub-County. Tension has been brewing in the region since the government started evicting settlers in the forest, and another 40,000 are expected to be kicked out as the government finalises on logistical issues surrounding the operation. The recent killing of a 42-year-old herder sparked off attacks and counter-attacks in what has exposed the underlying current and historical issues affecting the region. Succession politics in the area has been identified as the key plank in the violence that has rocked the region pitting members of two communities. An attempt to mobilise the elected and opinion leaders to spearhead peace missions between the communities and address the underlying issues causing the animosity have also flopped. PEACE MISSIONNarok Governor Samwel Tunai held a closed-door meeting with a section of leaders from the affected area on Monday at his office, where a raft of measures were discussed and proposals put on the table. MPs Gabriel Tonkoiyo (Narok West), Mr Korei Lemein (Narok South), Mr Lenkamin Aramat (Narok East) and several MCAs attended the meeting. "The deep-seated issues affecting members of the various communities residing in the region can be resolved amicably by bringing leaders, elders and opinion leaders to a round table,” Mr Tunai said. But the follow-up meetings did not materialise as it emerged that a section of the elected leaders vehemently opposed the unity call. “Differences between the governor and a section of the leaders and the fact that all the MPs are from one community played against the reconciliation efforts in the affected areas,” a leader who did not want to be named because of the sensitivity of the matter said. Efforts by County Commissioner George Natembeya to bring the communities together has also not materialised, though he was able to separately address them early in the week. POLITICIANS INCITESenator Ledama Ole Kina, Narok North MP Moitalel Ole Kenta, former Narok County council chairman Kelena Ole Nchoe and Woman Representative Lydia Masikonde Ntimama, in a clear pointer that the stand-off would not be resolved soon, told off those seeking reconciliation. “There is nothing to negotiate about with people who have taken over our land and destroyed natural resources,” Mr Kina said. The Senator said: “Leaders from neighbouring counties are advancing an expansionist agenda and we will not agree, neither will we cede any ground for outsiders to take over leadership in the area.” “Our position as Narok leaders is very clear, we will not hold rallies in the region until those settled around Mau Forest are evicted as that is the major cause of the conflict,” Mr Kenta said during the burial of the herder in Olmusakwa village on Thursday. He added: “Politically, we are ready to stick our necks out until the illegal settlers give way to rehabilitation of the forestland. The recommendation by the various task forces set up by the government to look into the issue must be implemented in full.” CONSERVATION CALL Kipkelion West MP Hillary Koskei and his Belgut counterpart Nelson Koech said administrators in the region had unfortunately been sucked into succession politics being advanced by a section of the leadership in the name of conservation. “County Commissioner Natembeya should play the role of a neutral arbiter between the communities, but he is seen to have taken sides on the eviction and his position is jeopardised further by his public utterances that the families evicted from Mau started the clashes,” Mr Koskei said. He added: “For the clashes to be resolved, the government should separate the issue of conservation and succession politics in Narok South. If we continue to deal with it the way we are with accusations flying back and forth, be rest assured the sad chapter of skirmishes in the region will not come to a close soon. Mr Koech said a section of Narok leaders were concerned about the high number of members of one community in the county being considered a threat in 2022 general election. "The violence that has rocked areas around Mau Forest in Narok and Nakuru counties are politically instigated with the bigger picture being to portray members of one community as aggressors.” EDUCATIONLearning has been paralysed in more than 40 schools in the area following the eviction and clashes, which have rocked the highly agriculturally endowed region bordering the Mau Forest. Eight secondary schools affected — Enakishomi, Olenkapune, Ololoipangi, Oltarakwai, Nkareta, Olmekenyu, Melelo and Olpokoti. In the 2005 eviction, the schools affected were Kipchoge, Olaba, Masaita, Kitoben, Ororwet, Kirobon, Kabarak, Koitabai, Noosagami, Chemogoi, Nyamira, Tebeswet, Ndianit, Sebetet, Silver Star and Fountain academies. Deputy President William Ruto has come under attack for allegedly misleading families residing in the Mau Forest that the Nyayo Tea Zones had set up a buffer zone between government and private farm lands. “The DP must be told that the Nyayo Tea Zones has planted tea inside the forest and must be removed to allow for indigenous trees to regenerate. The known boundary is that of trust land and cannot be changed,” Mr Kina said. TITLE DEEDSAt the same time, Lands Cabinet Secretary Faridah Karoney was criticised for allegedly attempting to sanitise fake land title deeds held by hundreds of settlers in Maasai Mau forest block. He criticised Ms Karoney over her recent claim before a parliamentary committee that there were settlers with genuine title deeds in the area. Mr Ruto - while on a tour of Narok South mid this year - said at Sogoo trading centre that those who had settled beyond the Nyayo Tea Zone tea plantation leave the forest. “This time around, people must realise that we are not joking with conservation of Mau Forest,” Mr Ruto said.   More than 30 schools are affected by the clashes that began several days ago.