The embattled chairman of Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company (Muwasco) Peter Munga has been asked to consider relinquishing his position at the water firm. Ahadi Kenya Trust Executive Director Stanley Kamau has said that Mr Munga has served the company for long and considering his age, he should leave leadership at the firm to a younger person. Speaking at Kagunduini market on Friday, Mr Kamau expressed his concerns over the continued wrangles and confrontations between the water company and the Murang’a County government. OVERSTAYED He noted that the tycoon has overstayed as the Muwasco chairman and its now the right time to avoid more confrontations with the county government and leave his position. “With all due respect, I request Mr Munga to retire as chairman of Muwasco and allow young people to take over leadership. This will see young people get employment,” noted Mr Kamau. The anti-jigger campaigner observed that all water companies within the county should be led by young people. He urged Governor Mwangi Wa Iria to consider giving jobs to the youth. In the recent past, the embattled chairman has been at loggerheads with Governor Wa Iria over the management of the water company. COURT ORDER Early September, Mr Munga obtained a court order restraining the governor from implementing a gazette notice in which he replaced him with environmentalist Joseph Kimura as the chairman of Muwasco. Water wars between Muwasco and the county government have escalated to a point where residents have been occasionally subjected to water shortage. The governor announced his intention to take over control of the four water companies operating within the county, something which sparked confrontations and rows in the water sector. Mr Kamau said the water wars have tainted Murang’a County’s reputation, adding that a solution should be reached as quickly as possible. His statement comes even as the youth in Murang’a threw their weight behind Governor Wa Iria in his efforts to reform the water sector. Led by Mr Benson Muguro, the youth said by refusing to relinquish his position, Mr Munga denied the governor a chance to reform the water and connect more homes to water supply. “We fail to understand why Mr Munga is adamant to relinquish his position despite serving at Muwasco since the company started. His move is denying Murang’a residents a chance to access safe drinking water,” Mr Muguro said.   Water firms disconnected water after Iria told residents not to pay bills.