Webuye West lawmaker Dan Wanyama has defended the 'genuine' decision by MPs to seek funds from Parliament to travel to Japan and watch the national women volleyball team compete at the 2018 FIVB Women's World Championship. Whilst indicating this 14-day tour by the 10 lawmakers could still happen, Wanyama while speaking to Nation Sport on Thursday suggested it is critical for the MPs to go to the Asian country and 'boost the morale of our national team players’ ahead of the 24-team international showpiece which kicks off this weekend. “This is a genuine request we have made to the Speaker and Clerk of the house. I have played volleyball competitively and can tell you our ladies will be motivated and play better when they spot us cheering them on,” said Wanyama, who once captained the men's national volleyball team. He also featured prominently as a left attacker for Co-operative Bank in the Kenya Volleyball Federation men's League and briefly served as Kenya Volleyball Federation's (KVF) Secretary General. Despite Wanyama’s stance, Kenyans who voiced their opinion on this subject seemed irked by the MP’s request with most of them suggesting it will be a waste of taxpayers’ money, considered each of the lawmakers will receive an air ticket, allowance and full board accommodation amounting to millions of shillings. Recalling past incidents where MPs have travelled to international competitions including the recent 2018 Fifa World Cup in Russia on ‘benchmarking trips’ without substantial feedback, a section of Kenyans on social media also wondered why the lawmakers had suddenly picked interest, despite shunning the team’s haphazard preparations at the Kasarani gymnasium in Nairobi in the run up to the event. During the preps, for example, KVF had to part with half a million shillings to access this government facility along Thika road for training. The Malkia Strikers as the team is popularly referred to, also failed to compete in any meaningful international friendlies owing to lack of funds, with coach Japheth Munala instead opting to test the ladies against men teams so as to ‘build up stamina and mental strength’. The lawmakers, who plan to travel to Japan despite not showing interest in the games activities locally, include Senators Irungu Kangata (Murang’a), Andrew Langat (Bomet), Christin Zawadi, Beatrice Kwamboka and Victor Prengei (all Nominated), plus Bomet East MP Beatrice Kones. At the same time, Malkia Strikers arrived safely in Hamamatsu Thursday ahead of the start of this tournament on Saturday. In their final build-up match, the Kenyan side lost 0-3(19-25,22-25,19-25) to a select Japan team in Korube City, before embarking on the six-hour drive to Hamamatsu. “Our opponents played a very fast game, very accurate with minimal mistakes. It was good for us because will have an idea on what to expect. Edith Wisa was our standout player with great blocking and she also scored at will,” explained David Lung’aho, who also is the team’s technical director. Kenya will play her Kazakhstan in her first assignment on Saturday, before returning to the courts to face Serbia the following day. Further assignments against Puerto Rico, Brazil and Dominican Republic are primed for October 1, 3 and 4 respectively. The best two teams from this six-team pool will proceed to the knockout stage of this 24-team tournament.   Ten lawmakers wanted to fly to Tokyo for the FIVB Volleyball Women’s World Championship.