“Bring it on girl and let the game start!” That was the message from World Boxing Council (WBC) World Super Bantamweight champion Kenya’s Fatuma “Iron Fist” Zarika to her challenger Yamileth Mercado from Mexico. The 20-year-old Mercado will challenge Zarika, 34, to the WBC belt on Saturday at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC). Mercado had cautioned Zarika and Kenyans that her looks should not be misconstrued and that she is in the country not to model or for a beauty contest, but take the belt back to Mexico. Zarika noted that Mercado is still new in the professional ranks, hence she plans to teach the Mexican some few boxing lessons. “In fact, she is the age of my first born daughter Sofia hence I will be like that good mother not to hurt her in the ring. She is too pretty for boxing” said Zarika jokingly. However, Zarika acknowledged that Mercado will give her a good fight, having watched some of her previous bouts, besides the Mexican having won two national titles while an amateur. “Boxing is not a beauty contest and I am sure Mercado is here for serious business that we are right and deep in,” said Zarika. Zarika, who jetted back into the country on Saturday, said her six months training in Liverpool, England was to sharpen her skills and discover her weaknesses. “Liverpool was just part of my training extension where I wanted to be in the hands of good coaches and trainers who will point out my mistakes. I am glad I achieved that hence I am ready to rumble,” declared Zarika. “I know people are talking about knockouts but a good boxer rarely talks about that, but rather focuses on a good show and leaves the rest to Allah,” said Zarika, adding that she will defend her title to the last sweat. It will be Zarika’s second title defence, having outclassed former WBC bantamweight champion Catherine Phiri from Zambia to retain her title in December last year at the Carnivore. Zarika, who has not fought since then, made history when she dethroned Jamaican Alicia Ashley off the title with a split-point decision on October 1, 2016 in USA, to become the first Kenyan to ever hold a WBC world title. Orthodox’s Zarika has 29 wins, 12 losses and two draws (29-12-2), while Mercado has 12 wins and one loss - (12-1-0). Besides the WBC title , Zarika also won Women's International Boxing Federation World Bantamweight title in 2007 and the Women's International Boxing Federation World Super Bantamweight title in 2008. Mercado fought last on June 1 this year in Hermosillo, Mexico, where she edged out her compatriot Beatriz Arangure on unanimous points in their super featherweight bout. Mercado has taken a shot at a title fight once when she lost to fellow country woman Jessica Arreguin Munoz for the vacant WBC FECOMBOX Female Super Bantamweight title on March 3 last year.   The 20-year-old Mercado will challenge Zarika, 34, to the WBC belt on Saturday.