Detectives attempting to unravel Rongo University student Sharon Otieno’s murder mystery are looking for four suspects believed to be hiding in Nairobi. On Friday, the officers collected passes Ms Otieno and Nation journalist Barrack Oduor used to travel from Kisumu to Nairobi to meet Migori Governor Okoth Obado on August 24. Two detectives drove to the lakeside city to get the documents. Sources within the investigating team confided to the Sunday Nation that the officers are closing in on the four. "We want to know who the two met in the city and if the meeting can be connected to the abduction and killing," one of the detectives said. Sharon’s body was found in a thicket near Oyugis after she and Mr Oduor were abducted. The journalist said he jumped out of the vehicle and hid from the abductors. MURDER PLOT The officer said investigations so far show the plan to kill the pair could have been hatched much earlier. Sharon’s mother Melida Auma is on record as saying her daughter and Mr Oduor travelled to Nairobi late last month to meet the Migori County boss. "I cannot tell if the meeting took place," she said. The Sunday Nation learnt that the Nairobi meeting was organised by Mr Obado’s personal assistant Michael Oyamo, who is in police custody. It turns out that the two never met Mr Obado on the said date as the governor was said to be out of town. Contacted, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet was cagey with details about the investigations. “Investigations are progressing well. Some suspects have been arrested and taken to court. Be sure that justice will be done,” Mr Boinnet said. OYAMO THE MAIN SUSPECT Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti promised to unravel the mystery in three days but that has not happened. Mr Kinoti did not return our calls yesterday. The detectives have collected fingerprints from the clothes and other items the two had when they were seized. The journalist said he and the student were led to the captors by Mr Oyamo. "We are monitoring their communication before and after the Nairobi meeting. There could have been plans to commit the heinous crime against the two in Nairobi," the police officer said. Mr Obado distanced himself from the murder on Wednesday but admitted that he had an affair with the 26-year-old university student. “As a law-abiding citizen, I want to state clearly and categorically that I have nothing — absolutely nothing — to do with the cruel death of Sharon,” he said during a brief press conference at Serena Hotel in Nairobi. He did not take questions afterwards. The detectives did not reveal any details about the getaway car and its occupants.   We want justice, says father.