Members of Parliament allied to both President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition leader Raila Odinga were on Sunday plotting to gang up against them regarding the head of State’s proposals after he rejected the Finance Bill. This is despite both leaders, in the spirit of their March 9 handshake, and which they have used to get MPs to back their proposals in the recent past, calling on the legislators to agree with the president’s memorandum on the Bill he rejected last week. He has since proposed a raft of changes to the law, including halving the levy on petroleum products to 8 per cent. But it is reports that the President wants the National Government Constituency Development Fund to take a Sh5.9 billion cut that has united the MPs in what rekindles memories of the legislators ganging up to increase their salaries — against the wishes of the President, and almost always, the nation. REDUCE FUNDS “We are not going to allow the government to reduce the funds meant for development at the grass roots. In fact, the government should be increasing NG-CDF and Affirmative funds, not reducing them,” National Assembly Health Committee Chairperson Sabina Chege said in Nandi County on Sunday. READ: Wounded MPs plot fuel tax fightback “Our people are heavily taxed and as MPs, we are not going to remain silent as they continue to suffer. We have to give this nation a new direction as far as taxation is concerned,” she added. Ms Chege was attending a Sunday service at AIC Chepkemel with MPs Didimus Barasa (Kimilili, Jubilee), Vincent Tuwei (Mosop, Jubilee), Taita-Taveta Woman Representative Lydia Haika and her Nyandarua counterpart, Ms Faith Gitau, who vowed to shoot down the proposed law. “If the President’s proposal on 8 per cent VAT on fuel passes the Assembly, Kenyans should blame their MPs. We cannot leave our people to suffer,” said Mr Barasa. BIPARTISAN VOICES Parliament will need at least 233 members to veto the president’s proposals, and going by the bipartisan voices and a planned Kamukunji on the proposals on Tuesday morning before the debate in the afternoon, President Kenyatta, and Mr Odinga might be in for a revolution. And although National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale on Saturday told his colleagues that the constituency fund will not be slashed, most MPs who spoke yesterday cited it as the reason they will oppose the proposed changes by the Executive. The President, a summary of his Friday proposal shows, wants to cut Sh8.7 billion meant for roads in different constituencies damaged by the recent floods, Sh3.8 billion from the Equalisation Fund meant to help marginalised counties develop, a Sh5 billion allocation to Parliament, Sh1 billion from money for providing cheap gas, and Sh2.6 billion from the rural electrification programmes and Last Mile projects. Further, he wants to cut Sh4 billion the government spends on foreign travel, seminars and training, and hospitality. IMPEACHMENT OF ROTICH “If the recommendations include a reduction in the Affirmative fund, NG-CDF and Last Mile connectivity funds, we will not support them,” said Maara MP Kareke Mbiuki, who chairs the House Environment Committee. Annoyed by the President's rejection of the bill, some in his camp have called for the impeachment of Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich. “Before Parliament went on recess, there was a bill to impeach CS Rotich and it is still alive. He has been inefficient. He doesn’t need to be impeached. As a leader, he also knows he has failed, why doesn’t he step down?” asked Chuka/Igambang’ombe MP Patrick Munene in Embu. Runyenjes MP Eric Muchangi said Mr Rotich should take personal responsibility for the leadership of his ministry “because it has not been doing well". Matters were no different in the opposition camp, with most MPs vowing to shoot down the President’s proposals. READ: MPs will feel pain in Uhuru austerity plan “We said we will support only government programmes and policies that make sense,” National Assembly Minority Leader and Chairman of Mr Odinga's Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) John Mbadi told the Nation in Mombasa. SUSPEND TAX “I don't think we should charge petroleum products at whatever percentage. We should suspend the tax as it was before 2013. Even 8 per cent is not desirable or acceptable because the spiral effect on the cost of living is going to be negative.” Mr Mbadi announced that the parliamentary group will meet on Tuesday morning to take a stand before the president’s memorandum is tabled in the House in the afternoon. He extended a hand to his colleagues in Jubilee Party, saying, “We represent the people and the voice of the people has been heard from the strongholds of both parties." Mr Mbadi’s stand was yesterday supported by Uriri MP Mark Nyamita and nominated Senator Dennitah Ghati, who asked the President to instead seek other means of raising the funds. Meanwhile, Mr Caleb Amisi (Saboti, ODM) said he plans to mobilise as many MPs as required to reject the president’s proposals. PASS THE BILL On Saturday, Mr Odinga and his 2017 election running mate Kalonzo Musyoka called on MPs to pass the bill as is, with the 8 per cent tax on petroleum products, and the other adjustments the President proposed. For his part, Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi warned that while halving the petroleum tax is a good move, the President should not cut other sectors’ budgets. READ: MPs weigh in on Uhuru's fuel tax proposal “There is an ominous twist to the President’s seeming magnanimity in the threats of cutbacks in ministries and Parliament. The President seems to be placating hawks in his administration who had threatened that reduction of the tax will of necessity sine pro quo mean cutbacks in essential services, including universal health,” Mr Mudavadi said in a statement. “This matter requires a bipartisan approach. I want to appeal to my colleagues in Parliament to interrogate the matters thoroughly to avoid making public statements that end up confusing the public more. Fiscal policy matters are highly technical in nature and require professional scrutiny. Unfortunately, most MPs have challenges with capacity in this field,” Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi said. He is one of the few voices in the opposition supporting the proposals. Reporting by Patrick Lang'at, Wycliff Kispang, Onyango K'Onyango, Wachira Mwangi, Grace Gitau, Gitonga Marete, Charles Wanyoro, Alex Njeru, and Ndung’u Gachane   The National Assembly has set special sitting for September 18 and 20.