Kyadondo East MP Robert Kyagulanyi, aka Bobi Wine, has told the public what he went through while returning from America. Mr Wine returned on Thursday after the treatment of injuries he sustained in the hands of police. "ARREST" He arrived to heavy security at Entebbe International Airport and was driven to his home in Magere, Wakiso District, at break-neck speed. “Upon landing at Entebbe airport, I was immediately arrested by people in police uniform and others in civilian attire. They grabbed me from the tarmac, took away my walking stick and grabbed my red beret off my head. I was forced into a waiting police vehicle,” he explained on his social media accounts. Police denied that they arrested him and said they only took him home as promised. The pop star politician was welcomed by masses of people who had been camping at his home. Daily Monitor journalists Andrew Bagala and Alex Esagala, who went to Magere, said the noise from the celebrations was defeaning. “I was overwhelmed by the masses of people who waited for me at our home in Magere. I can't thank you enough. I am thankful to God for getting me home safely,” the MP said. "IMPUNITY" There was tension around Kampala and Entebbe as police blocked and or arrested several people including journalists. Politicians including Lord Mayor Erias Lukwago were barred from stepping out of their homes on suspicion that they would cause chaos in the city. Mr Wine said: “Once again my rights were grossly violated but most importantly, the rights of my friends, family and lawyers who endured gross harassment throughout the day,[were also violated]. Many of them were arrested and only released late in the evening." In Abayita Ababiri, Daily Monitor’s Paul Adude recorded a video of soldiers of the Uganda People's Defence Force beating up people who lined the roads waiting to see the MP. Some were arrested and forced into two police vehicles. “I saw people, most of whom were going about their business along Entebbe road and in Kasangati town, being beaten and manhandled by some security personnel. This impunity must stop,” Mr Wine said. MR WINE'S FULL STATEMENT "After many days away, I am glad to be back home. The day has been as hectic as it was when I left. The state has lost all shame. It is pathetic how security agencies have devoted themselves to violating our rights with impunity day in day out. Upon landing at Entebbe airport today (Thursday) afternoon, I was immediately arrested by people in police uniform and others in civilian attire. They grabbed me from the tarmac, took away my walking stick and grabbed my red beret off my head. I was forced into a waiting police vehicle. I insisted that I did not want to get into an unknown car with complete strangers and that I had my own car waiting for me at the arrivals but my plea fell on deaf ears. Even when I suggested that they let me get into that strange vehicle with Hon. Winnie Kiiza, whom I had travelled with from Kenya, they could hear none of that. I was searched and my passport taken from me. I still don't know where it is. "GROSS ABUSE" I got sandwiched between two counter terrorism policemen in a vehicle that had other police officers. I was then driven towards the UN airbase with a string of police patrol cars and military trucks behind. They drove me at breakneck speed and after a long ride, we got to Kiira then headed to Gayaza road and I was eventually dropped at my home in Magere. Once again my rights were grossly violated, but most importantly the rights of my friends, family and lawyers who endured gross harassment throughout the day. Many of them were arrested and only released late in the evening. Many of my fellow leaders were put under house arrest for no offence whatsoever [but] simply because the state suspected that they would want to receive me at the airport. This is gross abuse of authority. I am very bothered by the gruesome pictures and videos which I saw. Why would security agencies dehumanise Ugandans so much? I saw people, most of whom were going about their business along Entebbe road and in Kasangati town, being beaten and manhandled by some security personnel. This impunity must stop. I hope Ugandans who watch these things now fully understand why we must urgently work towards redemption. I was overwhelmed by the masses of people who waited for me at our home in Magere. I can't thank you enough. I am thankful to God for getting me home safely. We shall get to talk more in the coming days."   His wife says they are not sure where he was taken.