Former Lugari MP Cyrus Jirongo will this afternoon know whether he will be released on bond following his arrest over a Sh25-million debt owed to businessman Bryan Yongo. Police made the arrest on Tuesday night following orders issued by High Court Deputy Registrar Elizabeth Tanui. Mr Jirongo is required to show cause he should not be jailed for failing to settle the debt. READ: Court declares Jirongo bankrupt - VIDEO But the former presidential candidate on Wednesday told the court that of the initial debt of Sh18 million, he has already paid Sh24 million. He said he needed time to file papers showing that he has actually been paying. Mr Yongo on his part opposed his release, saying the former legislator has failed to honour previous promises. He said the case has been mentioned 20 times and the proposals Mr Jirongo made have not been met. The deputy registrar issued a warrant of arrest so that Mr Jirongo is brought to court to explain why he should not be committed to civil jail. In a statement filed in court, Mr Jirongo said he will abide by all directions given to him by the court. The court will rule on his application at 2pm. Mr Jirongo is battling another debt of Sh100 million claimed by Central Organisation of Trade Unions Secretary-General Francis Atwoli. In court papers, Mr Jirongo said that although he had received a Sh100 million friendly loan from Mr Atwoli in August last year, which was payable in 50 days with an interest of Sh10 million, the agreement had stated that the money would be recovered from the debt the Nairobi County owes the politician. The county was supposed to pay Mr Jirongo’s company, Kuza Farms and Allied Ltd, following a consent order recorded before the Environment and Land Court on July 6, 2016 arising from a case filed in 2014. Another businessman Sammy Boit Arap Kogo wanted Mr Jirongo declared bankrupt over a debt amounting to Sh700 million, which he owed some eight companies belonging to Mr Kogo.   Loan from businessman Brian Yongo haunts former presidential candidate.