There is a global movement towards Universal Health Coverage (UHC) led by none other than the Director-General of the World Health Organization himself. This has pushed governments to prioritise healthcare within their jurisdictions, increasing the investments in health and focusing policy and programmes towards this sector. In Kenya, the president has come up with the so-called ‘Big Four Agenda’ that includes affordable healthcare as a key pillar premised on the achievement of UHC. Everyone is excited about the possibility that we will all soon stop worrying about dying from preventable causes, and that we shall have health services available to us within walking distance whenever we need them. CHANCE AT SURVIVAL Many entrepreneurs have identified the health sector as the next big thing in investment, and talk is rife of public-private partnerships in offering what is being packaged as ‘health solutions’. The sum of it is that we are going to invest heavily in the health sector, and we are therefore going to expect huge returns in the form of health indicators at county and national levels. For citizens with a long view, this present time represents a huge opportunity to forever change the fortunes of our people, by giving everyone a good start and a fair chance at survival in life. Regardless of one’s socio-economic status, the UHC movement promises to help guarantee among the most basic of our rights as human beings - the right to a healthy life. Unfortunately our politicians think in five-year chunks that begin and end just before elections. OUTCOMES In effect, they are only available for something resembling coherent thought for the three years in between elections, because the rest of the time they have to worry about the next trick they need to play on the electorate. The consequence of this is that they cannot envision a programme whose benefits will show long after the next election. It seems clear that our political establishment has completely misunderstood the fundamentals of programmes such as UHC. The promoters of UHC must appreciate the fact that any UHC-related improvements can only be measured decades after the system is firmly entrenched. Health indicators have a time-lag based on the fact that it takes a long time and large numbers of beneficiaries for one to be able to evaluate the changes caused by large-scale health sector programmes. EVALUATION Understanding this basic nature of health systems should not slow down our investment in evidence-based interventions in the health sector, but it should spur us on with the knowledge that we are laying the foundation for a healthier, more prosperous country for our children and future generations. It is therefore important that the government and the politicians involved in it stop looking for quick ‘gains’ to use at the next election as far as the health sector is concerned. Instead they should be laying the frameworks for the evaluation of their successes 50 years from now. Lukoye Atwoli is the Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Dean, Moi University School of Medicine; lukoye@gmail.com  