As rock star endorsements go, nothing beats a positive rating of a product by Raila Odinga in the Luo Nyanza market. The last time HIV/Aids campaigners got the ODM party leader to support male circumcision, young men flocked to the clinics in many towns and villages in droves for the cut, defying the traditional aversion of the practice by the community. So Unaitas, the giant savings and credit co-operative society (sacco), was right on the money when it picked Mr Odinga to grace the opening of its Kisumu branch last week. Unaitas also starts off from a position of great advantage in an area where there is little competition from other established saccos. By last year, not more than three appeared on a list of deposit-taking saccos in Kisumu County deemed compliant with the Saccos Regulatory Authority (Sasra) rules. ECONOMY Only one of the three saccos was based in Kisumu Town, which styles itself as the biggest commercial hub in the Luo Nyanza counties, including Homa Bay, Migori and Siaya. Its membership was largely composed of teachers. The two other saccos operated from the Muhoroni sugar belt. As you would expect, Homa Bay, Migori and Siaya came off much worse than Kisumu on the Sasra list. In Kenya, the co-operatives movement plays an important role in the mobilisation of savings and capital for small business and its footprint in an area could offer an idea about economic activity there. But its stunted growth in Luo Nyanza speaks more to organisational and management challenges than a lack of savings culture. SHYLOCKS The fishing beaches in the four counties, for example, are littered with storage facilities and other physical structures that stalled after the co-operative societies that built them collapsed. Predatory shylocks, informal microfinance institutions and pyramid schemes have moved in to exploit the savings and credit vacuum, often with disastrous results. A friend once told me how their family spent a lot of money to settle a relative’s medical expenses until they discovered that her high blood pressure complications were related to the menaces of a shylock-type microfinance organisation out to recover a loan. Another friend once sent cash to save a family from the indignity of spending the night in the cold after a shylock showed up with goons to pull down their mabati roof over a loan default. TABLE BANKING It testifies to the remarkable resilience of the traders, the farmers and the fisher folk in places like Kisumu that small business remains robust despite the relative credit drought and terror by the shylock-type microfinance organisations. Every single day a group of market women is meeting somewhere to contribute money to their chama or share out collections by their village table banking club. Professionally run saccos can help them achieve their business dreams by offering opportunities for secure savings and access to affordable credit. Hopefully, the entry of Unaitas paves the way for more saccos in the Luo Nyanza counties. jkotieno@ke.nationmedia.com  