Mombasa Rugby Club’s fly-half Elvis Namusasi is among three players set for international debuts with Kenya Simbas during the Rugby World Cup qualifying Repechage tournament due November 11 to 23 in Marseille, France. Namusasi, who is a former Western Bulls player currently studying Journalism and Mass Communication at Technical University of Mombasa, will partner with seasoned Darwin Mukidza at fly-half in Ian Snook’s squad of 33 players that start training on Monday. Joining Namusasi for their maiden test matches at the Repechage are props Thomas Okidia (Homeboyz) and Ephrahim Oduor (Kabras Sugar. Kenya Cup champions Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB), Kabras Sugar and Homeboyz have provided the bulk of the team. KCB have eight players, Kabras Sugar have provided seven while Homeboyz five player. Repechage will also see the return of influential former skipper and lock Wilson K’Opondo of Kenya Harlequins, who missed the entire Gold Cup campaign. However, Snook has dropped KCB forwards Curtis Lilako, and Oscar Simiyu besides Impala Saracens lock Erick Kerre. Also sidelined are Quins fly-half Isaac Adimo and Kenya Under- 20 international and Strathmore Leos winger Edmund Anya. The Marseille Repechage is Simbas' final stab at qualification for the 2019 Rugby World Cup in Japan after missing out on the African berth, when they finished second to eventual qualifiers Namibia during the Gold Cup, which also doubled up as the continental qualifiers. The Simbas will launch their quest against Canada on November 11, before meeting Hong Kong on November 17. They will wrap up their campaign against Germany on November 23. The winner of the round robin competition will secure a ticket to compete against New Zealand, South Africa, Italy and Namibia in Pool B of next year’s tournament in Japan. Kenya Simbas squad Props: Patrick Ouko (Homeboyz), Moses Amusala (KCB), Thomas Okidia (Homeboyz), Ephraim Oduor (Kabras Sugar), Joseph Odero (Kabras Sugar), Hillary Mwanjilwa (Kabras Sugar) Hookers: Colman Were (Kabras Sugar), Peter Karia (KCB), Philip Ikambili (Homeboyz) Locks: Wilson Kopondo (Kenya Harlequin), Andrew Chogo (Kabras Sugar), Oliver Mang’eni (KCB), Malcolm Onsando (Kenya Harlequin) Backrow: George Nyambua (Kabras Sugar), Dalmus Chituyi (Homeboyz), Elkeans Musonye (Strathmore Leos), Davis Chenge (KCB), Martin Owilah (KCB) Scrum halves: Samson Onsomu (Impala Saracens), Mohamed Omollo (Homeboyz), Xavier Kipng’etich (Impala Saracens) Fly Halves: Darwin Mukidza (KCB), Elvis Namusasi (Mombasa) Centres: Leo Seje (Impala Saracens), Maxwell Kang’eri (Homeboyz), Peter Kilonzo (KCB), Zedden Marrow (Homeboyz), Felix Ayange ( Kabras Sugar) Back Three: Tony Onyango (Homeboyz), Vincent Mose (Impala Saracens), Jacob Ojee (KCB), William Ambaka (Kenya Harlequin) Utility: Biko Adema (Nondescripts)  