True to their promise, Isuzu East Africa delivered a brand luxury Isuzu D-Max double cab worth Sh5.9 million to new world marathon record holder Eliud Kipchoge at Sports Club in Eldoret on Thursday. The company had promised the athlete a free vehicle if he would lower the marathon record of 2:02:57 that was previously held by Kenya's Dennis Kimetto. Kipchoge ran a brilliant race and shattered the world record, before clocking his personal best of 2:01:39 ahead of compatriots Amos Kipruto (2:06:23) and Wilson Kipsang (2:06:48). During the ceremony, Kipchoge received the keys from Isuzu Managing Director Rita Kavashe at exactly 2.01:39 pm that coincides with the world record. The partnership according to Kipchoge has been fruitful and made it easy for him to train hard for the task ahead. “Partnering with Isuzu made my training easier and going to Berlin Marathon, I had to show that I had prepared well for a world record. The company gave me a third leg and that is why I was able to lower the record,” said a humbled Kipchoge.   The 33-year old, who fielded questions from the media for the first time since he arrived last week, said that he will be taking time to recover before he starts preparations for next season. “I will be taking a break for now as I look forward to start my build-up training for next season. Winning in London and Berlin was not an easy task, but I’m happy I’m done with the season and I have to be fit enough to continue running in the next season,” said Kipchoge. The Olympic champion said that the course in Berlin is good and the conducive weather made it perfect for him to lower the mark.   “I still believe the marathon record can be lowered in Berlin given that we have more than 5,000 athletes in Kenya and they are capable of breaking it. Records are there to be broken,” added the Eldoret-based athlete. Kipchoge also urged those who love sports to look for the Nike running shoes, which he has been using during his training and marathons. He saluted his coach Patrick Sang terming him as the 'best coach in the world' and vowed to continue working with him. “My coach is better than any other and he has all the qualities of a good coach. He knows how to nurture talents and that is why I have been able to do well in my career for the last 15 years,” added Kipchoge.   Sang on his part said that Kipchoge is a good disciplined athlete, who has been able to do well because he follows instructions. “I have been with Eliud for a long time and I must say the discipline he has is a major factor for his brilliant performance in athletics,” said Sang. Ms Kavashe said that they are happy to be associated with the world record holder and will strive to nurturing more talents. “We are happy to deliver our promise to the best athlete in the world who is also our brand ambassador in Isuzu East Africa, said Ms Kaveshe. She urged other corporates to come in and promote sports. Kipchoge’s mother, Janet Rotich, a retired teacher was happy with the company for rewarding his son after his achievement. “I was in deep prayer when my son was running and I’m happy he was able to win the race and break a world record, ” said Eliud's mother. His wife, Grace Sugut was proud of his husband's accolades.  