Dear Brenda, I have been an ardent reader and fan of your column. Keep up the good work. However, I feel that your response to a gentleman in the August 16, 2018, Just Brenda article titled: “My Wife No Longer Does Household Chores” was not impartial; and this is like the third time I have seen this. I am not questioning your professionalism but it was one of the worst responses. There were genuine concerns in that man’s questions. What shocked me is that the response sounded like a feminist attacking a man. You took sides from the beginning, and did not even address the communication disconnect. You lacked empathy. Some of the questions asked by the enquirer were of course not at par and he should style up, but do not disregard other questions by getting over yourself with what you do not deem right. That was a woman’s response, not a professional one. That is all, and keep up with the good work. Your articles are helpful as far as marriage institutions are concerned. It is only this response that did not go down well with me.  Dear reader, It's okay to question my professionalism should you so feel it is out of line – after all, this is an advice column, not a dictatorship, right? Not that we're not used to that. That being said, dear reader, I stand by what I said. We're in 2018 – women are no longer the only ones required to do household chores after a long day's work, and men are no longer required to be the only providers. Couples agree who can do what, and never to the detriment of the other half. Otherwise what's the point of marriage if not a profitable partnership, both emotionally and physically? If that's feminism, or a woman speaking to a man, or an unprofessional response – then I'm fine with that. The key is to find a partner who agrees with your personal politics, yes? Yes. *** Do you have a problem to share with Brenda? Please email: lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com   Ask yourself why you think your girlfriend needs to shower more than everyone else.