Ugandan Fide Master (FM) Harold Wanyama is the 2018 KCB Kenya Open Chess champion. Wanyama claimed the prestigious Prestige Category when he floored compatriot and fellow FM Patrick Kawuma and Kenya’s Candidate Master (CM) Ben Magana by half-a-point as the four-day competition ended Monday at the KCB Leadership Centre, Karen. Wanyama won five matches including two upsets against compatriots and International Masters (IM) Arthur Segwanyi and Elijah Emojong to collect six out of possible seven points for his second Kenya Open success. However, the 36-year-old Wanyama, who was representing his KCB Club, had to brave spirited battles from unranked Austin Walela from Kenya and Kawuma respectively before squaring to draws with them. Wanyama also claimed victories against fellow countryman Haruna Nsumbuga and Kenyans Jackton Munyi and Joseph Metho for his victory. Kawuma edged out Magana on bulcholz (countback) to settle second after they returned five-and-half points each. Perhaps what gave Wanyama the advantage was his stunning victory against Emojong, who was the defending champion and the draw against Kawuma. Kawuma collected more wins against John Mukabi and Mehul Gohil from Kenya, before drawing with Nsumbuga and Magana for his clean run. Magana, who got five wins, might have drawn against Kawuma, but lost to Segwanyi to lose to Kawuma on bulcholz. While Wanyama got to receive Sh 100,000 and a trophy from chief guest Samuel Makome, who is KCB Group chief operating officer, Kawuma and Magana got Sh 37,500 each. “It wasn’t easy and that is why I had to call for two draws especially that against Walela, who played extremely well,” said Wanyama, adding that his victory against Sengwanyi was really not a big upset. “At times ranking doesn’t count a lot considering that I have not beaten him three times.” Magana, 39, said even though he was not under pressure, he was trying to live up to his billing as the national champion. “Ugandans are performing well since there have many youngsters who are reinforcing their top players at the top. Kenyan needs to change the balance by bringing more youngsters to the game,” said Magana. Women Candidate Master (WCM) Joyce Nyaruai from Kenya won the women’s contest, scoring 6.5 points out of seven, beating compatriot Daphne Mwikali to second with 5.5 points. Mwikali edged out Uganda’s Ivy Amoko (WFM) on bulcholz after they each tied on 5.5 points. Sasha Mwongeli, Dorcas Wanjala and Lucy Wanjiru all from Kenya tied on five points each for third. Other collated results: Challenger:- 1. Martin Njoroge 6.5 points, 2. Harmony Odhiambo, Shafat Mohamed, Evans Sinoya, Abdul Roba 6, 3. Geoffrey Dokoria 5.5. Junior Under-16:- Boys- 1. Timohty Mwabu 5.5, 2. Sunil Subramaniam 5.5, 3. Ryan Maina 5.5. Girls- 1. Parikh Nikita 4.5, 2. Lily Robi 4, 3. Abriana Muthoni 3 Junior Under-12:- Bpys-Aguda Lwanga 5.5, 2. Lalith Reddy 5, 3. Mark Olando 4. Girls- Rao Ananya 4, 2. Haimi Shah 4, 3. Sifa Kagondu 3. Junior Under-10:- Boys- Odongo Lwanga 6, 2. Samuel Wanjala 5, 3. ganeev gahir 4. Girls- Suhana Patel 5, Savana Kamunyu 3, 3. Kagondu Ayana 3.  