Incumbent Waithaka Kioni has pledged to source for funding and sponsorship for the various national teams, leagues and tournaments if re-elected president of the Kenya Volleyball Federation on Saturday. The veteran sports administrator who’s served the sport in different capacities since his first election as KVF Nairobi Branch chairman in 2002, is seeking a fresh four-year mandate at the helm of the federation ahead of the polling exercise slated for the Roasters Hotel in Nairobi from 10am. “If elected,” Kioni clarified,” this will be my final term in office. In any case, the Sports Act bars me from contesting for a third term. Thirty six-year-old Martin Ochieng, a Kisumu-based former volleyball player, referee, and secretary general of the KVF Upper Lake branch, is Kioni’s only challenger. The Migori High School alumnus and farmer told Nation Sport yesterday he was confident of trouncing Kioni. He blasted the outgoing officials for what he termed the dwindling standards of women’s volleyball on the continent plus lack of competitive games for the men national teams. Ochieng has also promised to lobby the national and various county governments to construct indoor gymnasiums during his first term in office. “Our national teams and clubs have nowhere to train and play their matches.  I see governors constructing football stadiums all over. I will convince them to build volleyball gymnasiums,” said Ochieng. In total, 96 delegates drawn from 15 branches countrywide, plus representatives of clubs that participate in the KVF leagues, the Primary and Secondary Sports Associations, Kenya Universities Sports Associations and Kenya Prisons department are eligible to vote for candidates. Posts up for grab are president, first vice-chairman, second vice-chairman, secretary general, treasurer and committee members among other. Others are assistant secretary general, assistant secretary and organising secretary. Martin Makokha will be defending his seat as first vice-chairman against his predecessor Charles Nyaberi and former national team captain Phillip Maiyo. Kenya Prisons’ women’s volleyball team manager David Kilundo is seeking the second vice-chairmanhip and will be pitted against incumbent Kipkemei Sirma, Ibrahim Efumbi and Jacob Onyimbi in a crowded race. The vice president (women) race has attracted Kenya Prisons’ Rose Moturi against Mududa Waweru from KVF Coast branch. KVF secretary general Ben Juma will defend his seat against former Nairobi Water women’s coach Patrick Owino. Under-23 women’s coach Catherine Mabwi is up against former Co-operative Bank player Samuel Gacharira for the deputy secretary position.  