Daystar University students at Athi-River and Valley Road campuses have boycotted classes to demand Vice-Chancellor Timothy Wachira's resignation. The students, who accused Dr Wachira of mismanagement of funds and poor leadership, demanded an audience with the university's council. The students alleged that the university was not run in accordance with the charter. They also claimed that there was massive corruption and lack of transparency at the institution. The students alleged that the VC’s poor leadership had undermined academic programmes. “Many programmes lack adequate facilities yet the university has sunk Sh40 million into the establishment of a law school, which to date, has not admitted a single student,” said one student. The students also complained that in some instances, undergraduate and diploma students, sat in the same classes. POOR SERVICES They lamented that the university had been offering poor services, especially in the hostels and gyms. Staff members also complained of delayed salaries and lack of morale. READ: Daystar University shut over student unrest Last year, Daystar University students went on strike, forcing the university council to shut down Athi-River and Valley Road campuses. During the strike, the students condemned the administration's move to invite police officers to harass and forcefully eject them from the university. “We are not going to allow divide and rule policy which the (university) council is trying to use, we shall fight for a better university and deliver our university from poor management,” said a student. Last year's demonstrations forced the university council to appoint Prof James Kombo as acting vice-chancellor as Dr Wachira proceeded on leave. SUSPENDED The students have vowed not to allow Dr Wachira, who is still on leave, back as the vice-chancellor. On Thursday, Daystar University Council Chairman George Khroda, in a memo to the university staff and students, suspended all the operations and activities of student leaders and ordered them to leave the university premises. “All university programmes continue as planned. This office shall issue further direction in due course,” said Mr Khroda. However, Mr Khroda did not address the issues raised by the students. The student leaders termed their suspensions as null and void. AMICABLE SOLUTION Acting Vice-Chancellor James Kombo promised to find an amicable solution to the problems affecting the university. He asked the student leaders to contact the relevant officers for further guidance and support. Three unions, Daystar University Students Association, Senior Staff Association of Daystar University and Daystar University General Staff Association, have all written to the university council to demand for a comprehensive audit of the university's finances.  