Waithaka Kioni was on Saturday re-elected president of Kenya Volleyball Federation during the institution's Annual General Meeting in Nairobi. The long-serving administrator trounced Martin Ochieng', his only challenger, by 68 votes to 26 in this peaceful polling exercise that commenced at around 1pm and lasted two and a half hours. "I was confident of making a comeback, I will not take this responsibility for granted. Volleyball is the best performing team sport in the country and I am going to ensure this remains the case," said Kioni. Speaking after the results were announced, Ochieng immediately conceded terming the polling exercise "free and fair." He also dispelled rumours he was sponsored by 'forces' to oust Kioni. "I have heard that line for the past four days, that some people have planted, which is laughable, untrue and incorrect. I think it is propaganda," he said. In other results, Kioni's two deputies Martin Makokha and Kipkemei Sirma were trounced, while another veteran administrator Charles Nyaberi and the vocal Moses Mbuthia were offered a comeback to the National Executive Committee after four years in the cold. In what was clearly a case of reversed roles, Nyaberi reclaimed the first vice-chairman's post, defeating Makokha 66-36 in a re-run of the 2014 elections. Sirma meanwhile narrowly lost to David Kilundo - who is the Senior Assistant Commissioner of Prisons - 40-36, in a tight contest for the second vice-chairmanship. "I am keen on initiating youth programs and sourcing for sponsors. This is the only way we can improve the standards of this sport," said Kilundo, who doubles up as the Kenya Prisons men and women team manager. Also, Mududa Waweru defeated Rose Muturi to win the vice chairperson (women) seat, whilst Kenneth Tonui and Ismail Chege were re-elected as treasurer and organising secretary respectively. "We are renewing the National Oil and Malkia Strikers sponsorship deal next week. I will dedicate my last term in office looking for money to grow this sport," said Tonui. Ben Juma was also re-elected as secretary general, with Mbuthia making a comeback to the deputy treasurer's office at the expense of John Ogara, Michael Njoroge, Esther Mutemi and Martin Ngatia. Elected officials: President: Waithaka Kioni First vice-chairman: Charles Nyaberi Second vice-chairman: David Kilundo Vice-chairperson (gender): Mududa Waweru Secretary general: Ben Juma Secretary: Ismail Chege Deputy secretary general: Catherine Mabwi Deputy organising secretary: John Oronje Treasurer: Kenneth Tonui Assistant Treasurer: Moses Mbuthia Committee members: Joseph Kosgei, Alfred Chedotum, Emily Mbotela  