“My mother died when I was eight. My sister was four and my brother was two weeks old. My mother’s relatives took us away from our father, claiming he had not finished paying dowry. We lived with our grandmother but shortly after, she also died. None of the other relatives took care of us so at nine years old I started doing casual work in  homesteads to make a living. “One day my uncle beat me up so much that I decided to run away. I spent the night in a coffee plantation and the following day, I ended up in the streets of a town called Ikinu, in Kiambu. My siblings were also being abused; they were forced to join me in the streets. “By this time I was around 12 years old. We survived by eating leftovers from butcheries and garbage bins. We slept under lorries. I would lie to the people in the butchery that we had a dog so that they could give me bones which we’d eat. After some time the butchery owner asked why I was not in school and I told him my story. He gave me a cleaning job that paid Sh10. Later I was promoted to the kitchen. We remained homeless but at least now I could take some food to my siblings at the end of the day. “One day a lady found us sleeping under her lorry and gave us accommodation. I started working as a shamba boy and my siblings went back to school. After one year, we left her home and moved to a single room; the rent was Sh100. I continued to do manual labour. I later found a gardening job and the employer advised me to join an adult education programme. In 2009, I sat for my KCPE and scored 252 marks.   “I needed Sh9,000 to be enrolled to high school. I managed to raise some of it in church and the school allowed me to join without the rest of it. I was still taking care of my siblings so I was juggling both school and casual work. After Form One, I couldn’t afford to go to school anymore so I got into to the hawking business. STOPPED BEING A HAWKER “I stopped being a hawker because I was not comfortable with the dishonesty. I became a shamba boy again. Earning Sh2,500 shilling per month, I saved Sh300 every month and at the end of one year, I opened a kibanda. I would go to Dagoretti at night, buy a goat head to make soup and stuffing to make mutura and then be back in my village by 7am to open the business. Then one day as I was coming from the market, I got cornered by City Council and in the scuffle, I lost all the money and stock I had. I got so depressed. I bought a rope to commit suicide and just when I was getting ready to do it, my sister walked in to the room and asked me what we were going to eat. That brought me back to my senses. “I was 19 by then. Someone in my church youth group had been invited to speak at a high school but they couldn’t get time off work. They recommended that I go. The students got inspired by my story of endurance so much that the CU patron invited me back. She also offered to support us. She also engaged someone to tutor me. Every evening after kibarua and cooking, I studied. I sat for my KCSE and after each paper, I went to work. I scored a D+ and decided that I wanted to go to college to study counselling. But I needed Sh30,000. “Luckily, I got an interview at a radio station and one of the listeners offered to pay for two terms. They even gave me a laptop. I was doing construction work by day and then going for evening classes. My healing started when I was in college because when you are studying to be a counsellor you have to go through therapy. “I started getting platforms to speak in schools and churches. Someone encouraged me to write a book, which I did. I was featured on a radio show, and then a former MP reached out to me. He paid a publisher to print 1,000 copies of my book, which I started selling in churches. I sold over 6,000 copies in one year. I also graduated with a higher diploma in counselling psychology and a diploma in theology. “Today I have written 10 books on different topics. I have also launched a motivational, counselling and mentoring company. My brother is now in Class Eight and my sister is in college. We all still live together in a comfortable home. I am also engaged to be married to a wonderful woman. I am in a place in my life where I can finally enjoy life.”   Betty Kagwiria, 29, temporarily lost the use of her limbs in a car accident caused by her ex-boyfriend.