Police in Kisumu on Saturday arrested Budalang’i MP Raphael Wanjala following chaos at a function in Busia on Friday. Kisumu County Commander John Kamau told Nation that they had detained the lawmaker after he fled Busia for Kisumu following a clash involving his supporters and that of his predecessor, Foreign Affairs Chief Administrative Secretary (CAS) Ababu Namwamba. “He came to hide in a hotel here in Kisumu. We got hold of him [Saturday] evening and we will hand him over back to police in Busia because they are handling the matter,” he said. The two leaders' supporters clashed during a function organised by the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure that was led by CAS Chris Obure. The team was on an inspection tour of various national government projects that included the Busia-Malaba, Malakisi-Malakisi-Lwakhakha roads and the iconic Sigiri Bridge in Budalang'i. Mr Namwamba's earlier meeting with Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong at the county headquarters’ office in Busia town had been successful before he proceeded to inspect construction works of the two roads. SIGIRI BRIDGE Hell broke loose just minutes after Mr Ababu, Mr Obure and Busia County Commissioner Michael Tialal landed at the Sigiri Bridge where his supporters and Wanjala’s had already gathered. Irate youth then blocked Mr Namwamba from accessing the dais. Efforts by Mr Obure, Mr Tialal and Busia Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi to mediate between the youth and the former MP fell on deaf ears. This happened just a few minutes after Mr Wanjala had welcomed the team at the bridge with the two even greeting and hugging each other. “Ababu should stop interfering with my job. I am the area MP and when I won the August elections this bridge had collapsed. It was started in January and is now nearing completion. What is his role here?" asked MP Wanjala. With the help of the police, Ababu later accessed the bridge, a move that seemed to have irked Mr Wanjala who confronted him. After the team was briefed by the contractor on the progress of the bridge with assurance given that it will be ready in a month’s time, they left for the helicopter where Mr Ababu for a second time tried to address residents from the left door of his helicopter. All seemed to be going well until Mr Wanjala once again confronted him. His supporters then started pelting stones at the helicopter with some aiming at the former lawmaker. Police acted promptly by lobbing teargas and firing in the air to disperse the crowd before the helicopter left immediately. Later in a phone interview, Mr Ababu claimed he regretted the incident, terming it village politics with no direction. “It’s unfortunate that a good day has ended chaotically. There are a few individuals who think I am a threat to the positions they hold. I have outgrown Budalang'i, I am comfortable where I am,” quipped the former ODM Secretary General. Mr Tialal said they have launched investigations to bring the culprits to book.  