The Brookside Term One secondary schools national games get underway Tuesday at Kangaru School in Embu County. Various schools from Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association’s eight regions will do battle in hockey, basketball, rugby 15s, swimming as well as handball and athletics which have been introduced to the Term One calendar. Boys’ basketball champions Laiser Hill from Rift Valley region begin their title defence against Alliance Boys in their Pool ‘B’ opener. In the absence of three-time champions Upper Hill, Laiser Hill will be favourites to clinch a record seventh title. Laiser Hill captain Sheldon Ouma admits that good start will give them the confidence to go all the way to another final. “It is always paramount to get a win in the first match so as to have a good competition. Of course, teams will be eager to beat us because we are the champions but we are up to the challenge,” the skipper said on Monday. The other pool B match will be a clash of debutantes as Nairobi’s Dagoretti High take on Sigalame from Western. Dagoretti, who locked out Upper Hill from this year’s Nationals, will be hoping to make their mark in Embu with a good start. In Pool ‘A’, returnees Meru School of Eastern will take on Wajir High of North Eastern, as Nyanza’s Ambira tackle Aga Khan from Coast. In the girls’ contest, defending champions Kaya Tiwi of Coast face off with Barchando of Nyanza, who are returning to the nationals after a one-year absence, while Moi Girls’ Eldoret take on Butere of Western in Group ‘A’. The 2010 champions Buruburu play Moi Girls’ Mandera of North Eastern, while home girls Kirigara entertain Loreto Limuru in pool B. Rugby powerhouse Kakamega High School face new entrants Miathene from Eastern region in rugby 15s. However, champions Kakamega expressed caution ahead of the event opener against the minnows who have never played at the national level. Kakamega coach Amos Wamanga said though they were optimistic of title defence, they would approach their opponents seriously, and take each match at a time. The group also has Nyanza champions, St Mary’s Yala and Alliance (Central). “We equally qualified in our respective regions and I believe it was not easy. We want to handle each game at a time, hoping to top our pool. Then we will concentrate on our campaign to maintain the trophy,” he said after a light training session. In their ranks, the team has six players who featured in their last year’s campaign that saw them emerge second in the East and Central Africa tournament, losing to Laiser Hill who failed to qualify for this year's games. Miathene, on the other hand, will be buoyed by the fact that they beat former Eastern region powerhouse, Kangaru School 16-12 in a tense regional finals. “We are not worried by the title defending champions. What we have done in the field makes us champions too,” said coach Patrick Mwika. In hockey, boys' defending champions St Antony's Kitale are counting on their experience as they seek to defend their title at Kangaru grounds where they won their maiden title.  