Teachers’ unions have accused the government of deliberately delaying to remit their dues amounting to millions of shillings. Kenya Union of Post-Primary Education Teachers (Kuppet) is demanding Sh35 million while Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) wants Sh135 million. Kuppet acting secretary-general Moses Nturima said the union is unable to run its activities due to the delay. “We write to inform you that for the last two months, you have intentionally delayed remittance to the union account despite having deducted the cash,” said Mr Nturima in a letter dated April 17 to TSC chief executive Nancy Macharia. COLLAPSED He went on: “The union operations across the country have almost collapsed. Union employees have not been paid salaries for the month of March which is very unkind. Bank loans and other financial obligations have not been met.” The union wants the TSC to release the money immediately to avoid “unnecessary” legal action. “This seems to be an orchestrated move to kill teachers’ unions in Kenya because no amount of explanation can suffice to explain this cruel and illegal action by TSC,” said Mr Nturima. For his part, Knut secretary-general Wilson Sossion said the union is unable to pay staff in the head office and the 110 branches across the country. “We are asking the TSC to give us the money as soon as possible,” said Mr Sossion. RESIGN TSC could not be reached for comment as Ms Macharia did not respond to queries on the matter. At the same time, Mr Sossion has promised to resign only if directed by the union’s 2,000 delegates. During the union’s 60th annual conference in Mombasa in December last year, the delegates resolved to have Mr Sossion continue serving as the union chief. The Knut boss said NEC’s role is to see that the decisions and policies of the annual delegates conference are fully executed. However, Mr Sossion is facing a tough battle to retain his position in the union after the NEC reportedly gave him an ultimatum to resign as ODM nominated MP so that he can concentrate on union matters. QUIT UNION “The resignation is supposed to be done in the shortest time possible and, if not done, we will act,” said a member of NEC whose comment was corroborated by other officials who did not want to be named. Two cases have also been filed in court to have him quit the union. In January, TSC sacked Mr Sossion as a public school teacher but he has since challenged the decision in court.   Union vows to sue TSC over the movement to Knut if not cancelled.