The call by Kiambu Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchomba to the Kikuyu community to re-adopt polygamy raises very salient concerns about the future of our society. Angered by alarmingly high levels of alcoholism, which has decreased birth rates in central Kenya, the MP asked rich able men to adopt polygamy. But is her proposal the panacea? Her concern raises the phenomenon of the intertwining of Westernised modernity, African norms and traditions, African philosophy and the wholesome future of the African society. In most African societies, beer drinking was, indeed, a cultural requirement for men. In others, it symbolised a great sense of unity and egalitarianism among them. Recounting the Kikuyu norms that governed drinking, Mzee Jomo Kenyatta asserts in his book, Facing Mount Kenya,  that it was strictly for men who had been “accepted” by the society. COMMUNAL TESTS “Acceptance” meant they had passed all the “communal tests” — such as being responsible husbands (most were in polygamous family set-ups), feeding their tens of children, building enough huts for their wives and maintaining order in their families, among others. This was the universal cardinal rule of living in many communities. Those who defied them were excommunicated or faced grievous ramifications from the “wrath” of the gods. That was meant to ensure that the nobility behind it was disabused. Beer was (and still is) sacred in some communities as libations are still conducted to appeal to the gods and spirits. But, unlike in the olden days, the noble tradition of responsible drinking has been abused, with poor parenting often cited as a major cause. MORALS However, while in modern definition parenting incorporates the presence of both female and male parents, inculcation of morals may not necessarily mean that one cannot singlehandedly bring up morally upright and responsible children. In social philosophy, morals and gender presence are not disproportionate. I believe a responsible man or woman can successfully play the role of both genders in situations where one parent is unavailable. Single mothers have raised very successful personalities. In the same breadth, there are fathers who have brought up their children to adulthood without their mothers. Now, there are a million reasons which could have resulted in such situations — some natural, such as death, and others by default, like divorce or domestic violence. In this context, therefore, alcoholism is a default rather than natural cause. As such, a woman may decide to bring up her children alone if the father is a captive of the bottle. MODERNITY We find ourselves back to the moral question: Does the gender count? The answer is relative. In a society where modernity has borne all ills, morality remains paramount despite the path through which it is achieved. If the child will achieve all their dreams in the hands of a responsible mother or vice-versa, then we have no reason to invoke the completeness of the “family unit”. Why would one live in a dysfunctional family to fulfil the “societal need”? Unfortunately, the “societal completeness” is being advocated by the religious community without taking heed of the prevailing circumstances. ALCOHOLISM The goal of every ambitious society is to anchor its foundation of growth in the moral philosophy. Alcoholism is one of the resultant ills of a broken social fabric. And as social scientist Peter Sloterdijk postulates in his book, The Art of Philosophy: Wisdom as a Practice, any success of a society that is not anchored on morals is as vague as itself. Then, if these ills overcome us as a society, we owe it to ourselves. Mr Kamau is a reporter with the ‘Taifa Leo’ newspaper. akamau@ke.nationmedia.com.   In most African societies, beer drinking was, indeed, a cultural requirement for men.