Kenyan champions Gor Mahia will be without Ugandan left back Godfrey Walusimbi when they take on South Africa’s SuperSport United in the first leg of their Caf Confederation Cup play-offs tie in Machakos on Sunday. The Ugandan, who is locked in a standoff with the club managers over payment of his allowances and sign on fee arrears, is set to miss his fourth consecutive game for the club. Gor coach Dylan Kerr, speaking to Nation Sport after Thursday's training session at Camp Toyoyo grounds, confirmed the player is not in his plans for the play-off slated for Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos on Sunday. “He (Walusimbi) just came back to Kenya, his issues can only be solved by the management which is finding difficulties in getting the cash he needs. Definitely, he is not part of this game until he gets his issues sorted out. I don’t know when that will be,” a furious Kerr said after an intensive two-hour session with his players. He added: “I have got 25 players in my squad desperate to wear the green shirt. Walusimbi is a good player but until he wipes out his issues we can’t have him.” The Englishman challenged his charges to grab the television exposure that will come with the fixture on Sunday. Gor’s opponents, SuperSport United, are owned by South African group of PayTV giants - SuperSport. “I keep telling my players every day, this game will be broadcasted across Africa., it’s a chance for them to showcase their talent and who knows, it could open a new chapter for one or two. It’s not golf or tennis that’s an individual sport, this is an 11-a-side sport and if we do things as a team, you never know,” he added. 'OUTSCORE THEM' The club’s top scorer Meddie Kagere says their aim is to kill off the game in the first leg. "The South African players utilise any slim chance they get in front of goal and to be safe, we must score many goals here. We are representing Kenya and not just Gor Mahia, we want to lift the whole country,” said the Ugandan-born Rwandan striker, who has previously plied his trade in South Africa. Meanwhile, Gor chief executive officer (CEO) Lordvick Aduda has revealed that SuperSport United will jet on Friday afternoon. The Eric Tinkler-led side were runners up in the 2017 Confederation Cup, losing 2-1 on aggregate to Congolese giants TP Mazembe in the final. In the PSL, they’ve endured a tough run this season and lost 1-0 to Polokwane City on Wednesday, leaving them three points off the drop zone with 27 points from 25 rounds.   Florent Ibenge is unique among African coaches in that he is in charge of a club and the national team.