Last year, we thought the declining standards in Kenyan golf could not get any worse. That year, three players made the cut:  Simon Ngige, Dismas Indiza and Riz Charania and the best placed Kenyan was Ngige at 34th, a position that would have earned him a cool €3,700 euros (Sh455,000) this year amid the enhanced prize money that stood at €500,000 with the winner getting €80,000 (Sh10m). The previous year, three Kenyans - Indiza, Ngige and Brian Njoroge were in the money bracket. The lowest earner was Njoroge at €726, the top Indiza at €1,342. This year being the 50th anniversary of the Open, a lot was expected of the Kenyan players amid the enhanced sponsorship from Barclays bank and the Kenya government. However, after two rounds of the game, it was clear that despite 55 years after independence and Kenya hosting among one of the most expensive events ever and throwing in 22 professionals and four amateurs, the two locals who made the cut could only finish 69th and 71st. All this is caused by the fact that the nation has not invested enough in golf which is taken more as a recreational event at the country’s 35 clubs where it is played. There are many factors, the key one being the time spent in preparing world class players and the resources used. Compare the golf crisis to athletics where Kenya is a superpower in track events. What you find is a lot of individual initiative by youth who spend many hours honing their skills on the hills and valleys of the entire Rift Valley and at many events around the world. Talking to a number of Kenyan golfers at Muthaiga Golf Club as the 50th edition of the Open concluded, many were of the view that Kenyan professional players cannot compete at this event because during the year, they waste time taking part in what is commonly known as “kamari’’ or betting games with amateurs at their clubs. They only start preparing for the Kenya Open a few weeks to the event. Others were of the view that Kenyan professional golfers should never be allowed to play from amateur tees even when playing in club events. Charles Mboga, of Limuru Golf Club gave the example of rugby sevens where for many years Kenyans were the whipping boys on thw world circuit but now they can beat the big boys because they have been trained by top coaches such as England’s ex-international Mike Friday who is currently in charge of USA. In the same vein, the Kenya Golf Union could bring a world class coach to work with Kenyan pros before the next Kenyan Open. The other option would be to strip some of the pros or all of them of the title and let them qualify afresh under new rules. And the club at which the Kenya Open was played this year, Muthaiga, has the toughest playing terrain ever in this region that is made worse by the tough pin positions during the Open. Why not expose Kenyans to these conditions before the event?   He walked away with 80,000 Euro (about Sh10 million).