George Mwaura, one of the leading golfers at Sigona Golf Club, emerged the best in a field of 100 amateurs during Friday’s Kenya Golf Union (KGU) Chairman’s Prize at the par 71 Muthaiga Golf Club course. The handicap seven Mwaura, a fairly long hitter, fired three over par 40 points to beat Karen’s Chris Pasha by one point. It was not however an easy sailing for Mwaura who started his round from the back nine. “Though I did not give up, I had no idea that I was going to win any prize after picking up an eight at the par five-10th," said Mwaura. He pushed his driver to the right rough at the 10th, chipped out well back to the fairway, but sent his approach shot to the water to eventually scratch the hole with an eight. He picked a birdie at the 11th but made a double-bogey at the 12th, recovered one shot at the 13th to cross to the front nine with three over. He birdied the par five-fourth but bogeyed the other par five (seventh) though he parred the rest of the holes. “I have been practising a lot lately but I think it is my determination not to give up which seems to really help me." Pasha on the other hand carded 20 and 19 points to claim the men’s first prize, beating Sigona’s Gitau Ndirangu by three points while Muthaiga’s Joe Mureithi was third with 35 points. In the ladies section, home player Mary Wainaina beat Wambui Burugu on countback with 33 points to clinch the first prize with Emmanuel Njugu winning the junior title with 35 points. Sigona’s Peter Kiguru was the best placed KGU executive with 31 points. For the club members, Mwai Mbuthia posted 34 points to emerge as the best past Muthaiga chairman, while the seniors were led by Elijah Adul with 32 points after beating second-placed Musikari Kombo of Vet Lab on countback. The nines went to M. Muriithi on 19 and Judy Njuguna also with 19 points, while in the subsidiary, Walter K’Anjejo and Rosemary Mkok won the longest drive contest with Peter Kiguru claiming the nearest to pin prize. Speaking during the prize giving ceremony, Nation Media Group chairman Wilfred Kiboro said the company will support the KGU to spread the game in all the 47 counties in order to tap talent particularly from the junior ranks. “The Nation has been involved in golf sponsorship since 1985 and it will continue to promote the game and other social activities because we believe we have a responsibility," said Kiboro.  