Last week, I discussed the first step in developing a marketing plan for a poultry start-up. One thing I stressed was that unless you’re developing the plan to solicit financial support, you should treat it like a living document and keep updating it as new ideas emerge. Today, I’ll discuss how to develop the pricing strategy, action plan and long-term goals (steps seven, eight and nine). Please refer to the outline I shared last week (Seeds of Gold, April 7). I learnt much earlier that pricing is one of the most important aspects of marketing and it requires careful attention. In fact, many farmers give up when they realise that the profitability of their products or services doesn’t come anywhere close to the level of effort and resources that go into production. Sadly, others even exclude their labour costs from these calculations to appear to ‘break-even’. There are challenges in devising a pricing strategy. “If your price is too high, you may alienate some customers. If it’s too low, you may give the impression that your product or service is cheap and below standard,” one marketing guru stated. She also mentioned that some businesses deliberately charge a very high price so that their customers can feel that they are getting a better product or service. She used the term ‘value-based price’ to describe the concept. Okay, let’s get to the practical. To arrive at the price for my chicken meat and eggs, the first thing I did was to work out all my direct and variable costs including dressing and packaging. In fact, some people include the percentage of their fixed costs like rent, rates and wages that the product needs to cover. Another thing was to only sell chicken meat per kilo (Seeds of Gold, January 30, 2016; December 30, 2017). If you sell live chicken at a flat rate as opposed to per kilo, you’re likely to make losses especially if you’ve invested in a good breed and quality feeds. The reason is that improved chickens—Kari, Kenbro, Kuroiler or Rainbow Rooster— have a higher feed conversion efficiency and gain weight faster if fed on balanced rations. ADDED VALUE To illustrate this point, I’ll share what happened to me some time back. I sold to a customer a live cock at a flat rate of Sh1,000. After agreeing on the price, he insisted it had to be dressed. The cold-dressed (carcass) weight was 2.7kg. The customer was happy and even ordered a second one, though I realised I had incurred a loss. However, on realising the cold dressed weight for the second bird was 1.7kg, he insisted to pay Sh700. I politely declined. You see, on average, a live chicken weighs anything between 1kg and 3 kg. From experience, a chicken loses half a kilo after it’s been dressed. That means if I sell to you a live chicken weighing 2kg, by the time it lands into the cooking pot, it will weigh 1.5kg. Remember also that slaughtering and dressing chicken meat for sale attracts additional costs. You’ll need a slaughter processing unit that includes a set of sharp knives, a killing cone, running water, gloves, protective clothing, plastic bags, refrigeration and labour. However, it’s still better than selling per live weight. There’s added value in selling chicken when it’s processed and packed. In some leading supermarkets, packing and labelling increases prices by about 50 per cent, according to studies. In my case, I’d also factored in direct production costs like buying day-old chicks, feeds, vaccines, labour, brooding, water and electricity and transport, among others (see table).   But then, I realised that even at my current price of Sh800 per kilo (assuming I started with 200 birds), I would be making a loss of Sh69,300 from the sale of 90 cocks assuming each has a cold dressed weight of 1.5kg. As such, in my long-term plans, I needed to make some changes like moving the venture to large-scale production, using both intensive and semi-intensive production methods and making my own feeds. STRATEGIES AND ACTIONS I also decided to diversify to other services like training farmers on feed formulation. Besides guaranteeing the feed quality, I now save between 30 and 50 per cent on a 70kg bag of commercial rations depending on the prevailing cost of raw materials. To achieve the required economies of scale at the same labour costs shown in the table, I always rear a minimum of 500 birds at any given time. In my business model, I’ve included hatching day-old-chicks and commercial production of poultry feeds. Hatching and selling day-old chicks to other farmers has better return on investments than, say, selling eggs or chicken meat. A day-old-chick costs Sh100 each. The long time to maturity for Kienyeji chickens is also a problem. As such, I’m considering rearing broiler chickens as well. This will ensure I get seven harvests per year since the birds mature in 30 to 33 days. When it comes to eggs, the issue of cost of an egg from a Kienyeji chicken relative to that from exotic ones keeps coming up. Generally, many farmers sell Kienyeji eggs at Sh20 each compared to Sh10 from exotic birds. The great disparity in prices for eggs and debate about what exactly qualifies Kienyeji chicken makes it difficult for farmers to sell eggs from improved chicken breeds (Seeds of Gold, March 24). In fact, what makes Kienyeji eggs pricy is their taste, yellow-yolk and organic nature. According to the marketing expert I consulted, in addition to “adding a mark up to the break-even price (cost-plus pricing strategy), the price is set a bit higher because of the value customers attach to them”. From my experience, we need more research to understand at what price customers will forgo the benefits of a Kienyeji egg (yellowness and taste) and opt for exotic one because it is cheaper. Lastly, the action plan comprises the goal (objective), strategies and actions. Ensure that for each goal, you state the strategies and actions (activities to be undertaken).   One thing that will make your plan unique and ensure you make profit is how you handle the cost of feeds that account for 70 per cent of total costs.