Wooden chopping blocks illegal ***** It is illegal in Australia to use wooden chopping boards, Darmian Gow-Smith, one of the chefs at the Commonwealth Games’ Athletes’ Village at Griffith University tells me. He says wood retains food particles that can cause food poisoning after repeated use of the chopping boards. Incidentally, miles away in England, a grill and steakhouse in Birmingham was fined an equivalent of 86,000 Australian dollars (Sh6.6 million) in January for using wooden boards instead of dinner plates. Tell that to someone at Kikopey’s nyama choma joint! Visitors in love with Gold Coast ***** The infectious smiles of locals, warm weather and beaches have made many foreigners here for the Games fall in love with Gold Coast. Steve and Louise Daniels, from Wales, were quoted on Wednesday as saying if not for their children, they wouldn’t leave the Queensland State. “It’s a beautiful place and I will be telling people back home that they have to come here,” added Canadian cyclist Jay Lamoreaux, who placed 14th in the time trial competition at the Games on Tuesday. Well, I couldn’t agree more! Cameroon athletes go missing ***** Talking of not wishing to leave Gold Coast, reports here indicate that five Cameroon athletes have gone missing from the Games Village. Three weightlifters and two boxers, from Cameroon’s team of 24, went missing two days ago with the Australia border police launching a major manhunt for the three lifters – Olivier Matam Matam, Arcangeline Foudji, Petit David Mincoumba – and two boxers, Ndzie Tchoyi and Simplice Fotsala. “We have no idea where they are and the matter is now in the hands of police,” Cameroon official Simon Malombe told journalists. Games’ negative effects on trade ***** Not everyone here is happy that the Gold Coast is hosting these Commonwealth Games. Traders are complaining of declining sales with many locals forced out of town by traffic caused by the Games. “Gold Coast, don’t even think of hosting the Olympic Games,” an angry local wrote in the Gold Coast Bulletin on Wednesday. “The Commonwealth Games have effectively taken 33 per cent takings across the board for April business takings,” ranted Paul from Palm Beach. Locals were ordered to keep their cars off the streets during the Games, forcing many to go away on holidays.  