Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula have been asked to stop engaging in political schemes meant to scuttle Luhya unity initiatives. Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa, Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala on Sunday faulted the two politicians, claiming they have not had a meaningful development agenda for the region in the last 10 years. Mr Wamalwa said: “If after 10 years, Mr Mudavadi and Mr Wetang’ula have no new agenda for development for Western region, they should start giving way to new leadership. “What they need to know is that Western region has no shortage of leaders. Our focus after the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Nasa leader Raila Odinga should be working and planning together to help our people." AGENDA Mr Wamalwa said the time for politicians to engage in power games to push personal interests was over. “Our focus should be development for our people. In the next five years, if the Luhya community needs to benefit from development, its leaders should work closely with the Jubilee administration,” said Mr Wamalwa. They spoke at Irenji Catholic Church in Shinyalu constituency after attending a church service. LUHYA PARTY Governor Oparanya said Luhya unity was not about Mr Mudavadi and Mr Wetang’ula dissolving their parties to form a new political outfit to contest presidency in 2022. “We are telling Mudavadi and Wetang’ula to stop taking Luhyas for a ride. How do they hope to clinch the presidency when all they do is make brief visits to Kakamega, Vihiga and Bungoma and claim they are on a campaign trail,” said Mr Oparanya. The Kakamega County chief said he worked closely with Mr Odinga and was confident the opposition chief would back his presidential bid. “I have told Mr Odinga, this time around I’m set for the battle ahead. There will be no going back,” Mr Oparanya said. NEW LEADERS Senator Malala said Mr Mudavadi and Mr Wetang’ula should read the signs on the wall and exit the political stage to allow the new generation of leaders to take charge. “We can longer dance to their tune and empty promises when all they do is undermine initiatives at uniting the Luhya community to speak with one voice,” said Mr Malala. He fired a salvo at Senator Wetang’ula for coming out to champion for Luhya unity when he felt his political interests were threatened. “Why is Mr Wetang’ula talking about Luhya unity after he lost his position as Senate Minority Leader. He should stop playing games with the community in the hope of redeeming his political fortunes,” said Mr Malala.   Move to form a single Luhya political party seen as bid to break away from Nasa coalition.