The main proclamation by Jesus’ disciples after his death was: He is risen! This breaking news was greeted with joy by some while others were sceptical. Jewish authorities were hostile to any suggestion of a resurrection. Early proclaimers were persistent in the face of persecution and even death. The most detailed passages in the gospel narrative focus on the death, resurrection and expected return of Christ. All speeches by Peter and Paul in the Acts of the Apostles have their climax in this belief. And Paul dedicates one of his longest chapters, I Corinthians 15, on defending the resurrection. RESURRECTIONIt is clear from the Hebrew Bible that the idea of the resurrection evolved over hundreds of years. The writer of Psalm 88 pleads with God to keep him alive a little longer because should he go to utter silence in the underworld, there will be one person less to praise God! The books written latest in the Old Testament such as Daniel have explicit profession of the resurrection. Easter, as the celebration of the victory of life over death in Jesus, is the product of a long process that draws from various traditions. According to David Burrell, Emeritus Professor of Philosophy and Theology at the University of Notre Dame, in the Harper Collins Encyclopedia of Catholicism, Easter borrows basically from two cultural contexts. NEW LIFEThe first source is a nomadic way of life in which a lamb was slaughtered as a sacrificial offering to signify the Pasch or Passover. The second tributary comprises an agrarian lifestyle that offered first fruits in springtime to the gods in order to thank and atone them. In the northern hemisphere, many species of flora sprout, springing into leaf, and later into flower and fruit after a period of dormancy. The spring season begins with the vernal equinox around March 21 when the sun crosses the equator. Spring is a time of new life. No sooner did the Christians of the first century joyfully proclaim the resurrection of Jesus than they faced new challenges. They had to contend with opposition both from outside and arising within their own circle. EASTEROne faction insisted that Easter must be celebrated on 14th of the Jewish month of Nisan because this was the original Passover. This feast could fall on any day of the week. Their rivals countered that Jesus actually rose from the dead on the first day of the week, Sunday morning (Mk. 16:9). Therefore, the festival should not be celebrated any other day. Eventually, this latter group carried the day. There are ancient accounts describing Easter liturgies in Jerusalem, which spread to other cities. In the 2nd century, Christians developed an elaborate Easter ceremony on Holy Saturday night which St Augustine of Hippo later called “the mother of all vigils” (Sermon 129). SCIENTISTSAnother source narrating early Easter ceremonies in Jerusalem is a manuscript called Travel Diary by Egeria. This 5th century document written in Latin recounts in detail the liturgical activities of Palm Sunday, Holy Thursday, Good Friday and Holy Saturday, with special attention to the Easter Vigil. The diarist was an erudite lady of means and culture who had travelled from Europe. In our age of science and technology, thinkers have responded in different ways to the idea of the resurrection. Many modern scientists including Marie Curie, Nobel Prize Winner in Physics and Chemistry, Steven Weinberg, another Nobel Prize recipient in Physics, and the late astrophysicist Stephen Hawking find no redeeming value in religion and the resurrection. MESSIAHOthers, such as Russell Stannard, the particle physicist, believe that readers should be offered facts and theories and be left to make up their mind. The Kenyan philosopher John Mbiti remarks that it is difficult for people to accept the idea of the resurrection when their focus is on the past, not the future. In this regard, Charles Nyamiti, the theologian from Tanzania, proposes that Jesus should be re-interpreted in the African context, not just as the Messiah, but as Our Ancestor who inspires us to fulfil our potential. A very blessed Easter Season! Fr Njoroge teaches Development Studies in JKUAT Injoroge@ihrd.jkuat.ac.ke  