When everyone in my household was fast asleep this past Sunday, I stayed up late to watch the conclusion of The Masters at Augusta National Golf Club. Patrick Reed had started the day with a three-shot lead and had been playing very well in the first three days. He had the two characteristics of a champion; he was striking the ball well and he had the confidence of a king. Nothing seemed to faze him Thursday through Saturday. But when he started his round on Sunday, he started looking vulnerable right from the first hole where he scored a bogey. During this final round, there was no shortage of pretenders to the throne who were picking up birdies at every turn. Reed’s confidence was still evident in his stride but he suddenly looked vulnerable and at some point he did not look assured of his first ever green jacket. I had expected this birdie fest to continue for Reed but it was Rickie Fowler and Jordan Spieth, who came second and third respectively, who were picking them up on this final day. At some point in the tournament I was beginning to believe that we would have a play-off. Reed however managed to keep a level score for the last four holes to win by one stroke from Fowler. For that one-stroke difference, Reed earned a cool Sh205 million and a green jacket compared to Fowler’s Sh123 million. This was not the case at The Masters on Sunday, April 14, 1968. At a time when the golfers earned a fraction of what they earn today, a one-stroke error on Roberto De Vicenzo’s score card, cost him an opportunity to go for a play-off with the eventual winner of the green jacket. The eventual winner of the The Masters that year, Bob Goalby got away with a one-stroke lead after De Vicenzo’s marker put a four instead of a three on the 17th hole of the final round. After De Vicenzo signed his card and returned it to the recording room without noticing the error, his fate was sealed. De Vicenzo had actually played a round of 65 but with the error on his score card on the 17th hole, his official score was 66. When Goalby finished his round after De Vicenzo’s he was mentally prepared to go for a play-off. The TV announced the schedule for the play-off that was expected to run on the following day. On the month that Dr. Martin Luther King had been murdered and Americans were thinking of the war in Vietnam that was taking thousands of lives, another crisis was brewing in Augusta National Golf Club. How were they to deal with a case of an error made by De Vicenzo’s marker? The Rules of Golf are clear on where the responsibility of having the right scores on the player’s card rest. And no, it is not on the marker. The player is responsible. After completing his round, the competitor should check his score and ensure that the marker has signed the card, sign the score card himself and return it. This was the case then and it still remains today. De Vicenzo’s had to settle for second position after that error. As soon as the card is handed over to the committee and the player leaves the recording area, the scores presented are as good as etched on stone. However, this only applies for a score on a hole that is higher than what was played. The opposite scenario would earn a player a disqualification. If for example a golfer plays a five on a particular hole and his marker writes a four; should the card be returned without the error being corrected, the player must be disqualified. SIGN CARDS There are many instances when golfers sign their cards before they start their rounds. Whereas there is nothing wrong in this practice, it is my opinion that it makes them more complacent in inspecting their scores at the end of the round. This practice may lead to errors if one neglects to check their cards at the end of the round. At the recent Windsor Classic, a player was denied Kenya Amateur Golf Championship points after his marker wrote the player’s score on the wrong column.His card was returned with his scores written on the markers column and the markers scores were on the player’s column. The marker’s scores were much higher than the player’s but the player curiously failed to notice this error. The player was miffed when he saw the results of the tournament and his name was not where he expected it to be. All this would have been avoided had he taken the time to go through his card as we all should after our round.  