The Public Accounts Committee has summoned Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) Chairman Wafula Chebukati to explain audit queries that informed his decision to suspend CEO Ezra Chiloba. PAC chairman Mr Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja) said on Wednesday that the falling-out at the IEBC was a manifestation of plunder of public resources that the commission needs to explain to Parliament. “We may want to hear from the chairman, particularly if there are any audit issues concerning the matters we have been interrogating that have not been disclosed to us,” Mr Wandayi, who is out of the country on an official duty, told the Nation on phone on Wednesday. COMPULSORY LEAVE The committee is expected to meet on Friday to decide on the date Mr Chebukati should appear before it. Four of the six- member commission led by Mr Chebukati met on Friday last week and approved the resolution that Mr Chiloba proceeds on a three- month compulsory leave as the commission investigates internal audit queries raised in the August 2017 general elections. Mr Chebukati has since defended his decision saying it was the right thing to do. “The commission’s plenary meeting received and discussed an audit report on some procurement matters,” Mr Chebukati said. EXPENDITURE The watchdog committee has also written to former IEBC chairman Mr Issack Hassan and former executive officer James Oswago to appear before it and explain why the electoral body’s expenditure was marred by misuse of public funds. Among the issues PAC wants explained, as documented in the Auditor General Mr Edward Ouko’s report for the financial year 2014/15, are irregular procurement of election materials, overpayment of legal fees and unsupported expenditures. Former deputy CEO Ms Betty Nyabuto and former head of the legal department Ms Praxedes Tororey are also expected before the committee. Ms Nyabuto acted as the IEBC CEO after Mr Oswago’s contract ended towards the end of 2014.   IEBC chairman says suspension was a collective decision of majority of the commissioners.