Leaders Western Stima on Wednesday thrashed 10-man Administration Police 4-1 at the Moi Stadium in Kisumu to extend their lead at the top of National Super League (NSL) table to 23 points. John Oruko, Johana Mwita, Dan Otieno and James Ogada scored the goals to give Stima the win, while Isaac Ojuang scored Police's consolation goal. Despite their huge win, Stima's coach Richard Makumbi said his side should have won by a winder margin. "I wanted the players to score more goals than we did and we messed up because we conceded a goal," said Makumbi. A chance for the hosts to take the lead came in the 10th minute of play, when John Oruko's cross found Johan Mwita in the box, but his volley shot went over the bar. Thirteen minutes later, an unmarked Oruko placed his side ahead with a free header when Maurice Dukuly swung the ball into the box from the right wing. Robert Jagero received a booking for diving inside the box and was substituted immediately with Humphrey Alemba taking his place. Police missed a chance to bring to level maters as Hillary Otieno's shot failed to perturb Odhiambo in the Stima goal. Four minutes into the halftime break, Police suffered a blow when substitute Alemba was sent off following his dangerous tackle on Stima defender Geoffrey Ochieng. Oruko was on the offensive again immediately the second half begun, but he was denied by Police's goalkeeper Paul Khasenye who parried the ball for a corner-kick. Mwita put Stima two goals up in the 56th minute after connecting well with James Agembe's low cross inside the box, before Dan Otieno scored his side's third goal in the 77th minute after pouncing on a loose ball from a poor clearance by the Police defence. Police coach Juma Behlee brought on Julius Muteti for Alfred Otieno, while his counterpart Makumbi made a double change with Hurbert Kopanyi and Fredrick Nyarimbo taking the place of scorer John Oruko and Maurice Dukuly respectively. Former Gor Mahia player James Ogada sealed Stima's victory in the 83rd minute after tapping into the back of the net after goalkeeper Kasenye's poor clearance, before Isaac Ojuang scored his side's consolation in the 90th minute. Coach Behlee said the red card and fatigue cost his side a win. "Playing with ten men for such a long time was not easy plus we were tired because we arrived this morning," he said  