Skipper Johnson Ligare struck at the death as visiting Zoo Kericho salvaged a point after battling to a hard-fought 2-2 draw with AFC Leopards in a pulsating Kenyan Premier League match staged at a soggy Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos on Saturday. Leopards, bidding to close in on leaders Mathare United who play Posta Rangers on Sunday, took the lead through Ezekiel Odera's 25th minute penalty before Harambee Stars trialist Nicholas Kipkirui restored parity seven minutes afterwards to ensure the two teams went into the breather tied 1-1. Whyvonne Isuza's then gave Ingwe the lead late in the second half but Ligare ensured the two sides shared the spoils with a late equaliser. Zoo suffered a mishap as early as the second minute when goalkeeper Vincent Misikhu collided with Leopards winger Jaffery Owiti and fell awkwardly on his shoulder, and was unable to continue with the match. Samuel Koko, the burly second choice custodian, was called in as the emergency replacement and stepped in. The scales tilted in the 25th minute when Brian Marita was felled inside the box by Koko, thereby prompting referee Samuel Mwaura to award a penalty. Odera then took responsibility and kicked the ball calmly into the bottom right corner of the net to give the big cats the lead. The visitors however responded promptly, with Kipkirui taking advantage of a concentration lapse from the Ingwe defenders just seven minutes later. Kipkirui got past his markers and raced home before shooting past Ingwe custodian Jairus Adira, who slumped to his knees thereafter and banged at the ground angrily. At the stroke of half time, Zoo came close to grabbing the lead but a rasping shot from Mike Madoya ended up kissing the post and ricocheting off the field of play. ISUZA SCORES Chances were few and spread out in the second half, but it was Ingwe who threatened more during this period. Marita, Baker Lukooya and Owiti all created good chances for the 13-time champions but were unable to extend their lead. Isuza delivered Ingwe's second goal twelve minutes to time after a fine pass from Marita aa the club's fans urged their players forward. Ligare however ruined the party a minute into the added time with a wonderful header. In an earlier match played at the same venue, Nakumatt FC conjured a barren draw against Kariobangi Sharks. RESULTS AFC Leopards 2-2 Zoo Kericho Nakumatt 0-0 Kariobangi Sharks   Wanyonyi was also guilty of wasting open chances.