An offbeat movie away from the run of the mill Bollywood love triangles, released in India towards the end of last month has fascinated film goers and Kenya’s ardent Bollywood fans. Hichki – Hindi for hiccup, a theatrical film directed by Siddharth Malhotra for Yashraj Films, is about a school teacher who is different from normal mentors and guides. Naina the teacher, played by the charming and exceptionally talented Bollywood queen of hearts Rani Mukherjee makes a welcome comeback to the world of cinema after a considerable absence. She plays the character who suffers from Tourette syndrome, a condition that causes her to make uncontrollable hick and click sounds and be the target of mockery and humiliation by a bunch of notorious students. However her unwavering confidence in herself and the decision to teach in an interactive way using out of the box learning method within the school environment wins over not only the students but her employers and colleagues as well. The movie based on Brad Cohen’s autobiography Front of the Class, is a comeback for the actress Rani who had earlier established herself as a leading lady of the Indian screen. Following her marriage to film maker Aditya Chopra and the birth of her daughter, Rani had taken a four-year hiatus to focus on her baby. Her performance in Hichki has been applauded by film critics. It is not her role as the sufferer of the syndrome struggling to achieve her ambitions, but also the portrayals of the supporting young and youthful cast have earned critical praise. The music by Jasleen Royal, they say, adds sparks of musical freshness and fun to the proceedings. The film is said to be engaging, full of emotions, insightful and entertaining. It is a fresh concept from the perspective of people with disorders. Just because you are not normal does not mean you cannot fit in or are unable to succeed. Above all else the film provides a nostalgic experience about your school days and your favourite teachers. Besides it explores effectively the goings on in the minds of an abnormal being and the relations she has with her near and dear ones, work colleagues and superiors.    Despite the chilly weather, you have a variety of musical and cultural entertainment to warm you up this weekend.