As Kenyans join the rest of humanity in celebrating the World Health Day today, there are important questions those in positions of authority in government and the Ministry of Health must answer as they seek to address the severe challenges facing the public healthcare system. The first has to do with what the government is doing to ensure both quality and affordable healthcare for all citizens. This is a key plank the current administration has pledged under the “Big Four Agenda” and the public needs to see this promise translated into tangible action points and deliverables. It is encouraging that on Wednesday, President Uhuru Kenyatta opened an eye hospital in Bomet and on Friday, his deputy William Ruto directed the National Hospital Insurance Fund to sign up all secondary school-going children. HEALTH SERVICES However, giving large numbers of wananchi medical cover without a tandem improvement in the quality of services offered in public hospitals is unlikely to achieve the goal of better healthcare for all. The second question has to do with who should run health services. A survey released by research firm, Ipsos, on Friday indicates the citizens are not satisfied with the services offered by public health institutions. And an analysis of the budget spending by both national and county governments shows only five per cent of the money allocated for development and recurrent expenditure goes to health, yet the government pledged it would dedicate 15 per cent of the budget to health. PRIVATE HOSPITALS This explains why the services offered in public institutions perennially fall short of the expectations. Deliberate steps must be taken to equip and adequately staff the health institutions so that they can gain the confidence of the citizenry. Finally, the government must address the emerging trend where private health institutions have become the first port of call for those seeking medical attention. Studies have shown in countries where this happens, many families remain poor because they spend more on healthcare. It has also been shown in such countries the cost of healthcare is astronomical compared to those where public services are efficient. Thus, we must improve public health facilities.  