Parents of the 28 children who were injected with a toxic jab at Akichelesit dispensary in Teso North in 2015 want the Busia County government to honour a High Court order that gave them Sh40 million compensation. Speaking in Busia on Thursday where they had gathered to seek audience with the County Assembly, the parents said they were concerned the process was taking too long. COMPENSATE Mr Abel Okrir, their leader, said the silence by the county government on the matter has subjected them to torture as their children continue to live in agony. “The County Assembly, which deliberated on the matter, is also silent, leaving us worried,” Mr Okrir, the father of Vivian Asere, one of the victims, lamented. “After the December ruling, the county government was given 45 days to compensate us or appeal. That time has lapsed and, until now, our legal team has not received any communication from their side,” another parent, Mr Mathew Abita, said. MALARIA JABOn December 19, last year, the court ordered the county government to compensate the 28 children who were paralysed after receiving a malaria jab at the dispensary. READ: 24 children paralysed in dispensary scandal READ: Paralysis hits six more children The money was awarded to the victims depending on the level of injury they suffered. The judge noted that the victims suffered permanent physical disability of between five and 20 per cent. “It is unfortunate for a child born without any disability to wake up and find himself in such a state. He is likely to suffer mental anguish,” the judgment read. COUNTY ASSEMBLYWhile the parents said they had made available the necessary documentation for payment processing, County Assembly budget committee chairman John Obwogo said they were yet to receive them. This is despite the fact that the assembly discussed the matter in detail and unanimously agreed on compensation. “The decision of the court is paramount. What we have advised the affected families is to submit the relevant documentation from the court to facilitate payment. "We cannot deliberate on compensation without looking at the documents,” the Nangina ward MCA said. “We will have a discussion with the governor and other leaders so that all parties are taken care of,” he added. A woman in Sio Port in Funyula sub-county lost her two children after the vaccination.  