Are we, as Kenyans, living in a post-truth era? And of what concern is the question to us? Perhaps this Easter season, for Christian believers, provides a good moment to ask that Pilate question: “ ... what is truth?” In everyday conversation, everyone knows what truth is. People make several truth claims against each other — in giving witness, in resolving conflicts, in building consensus ... in whatever that demands truth to form the basis on which what follows is constructed. Fine. But what is truth? Looking back, the inconclusive 2017 General Election left the country polarised. What is the truth about the poll outcome? Was it fair, free and credible? PROPAGANDAWhat is the truth about Miguna Miguna’s citizenship? Is it true that Kenyans who, without any shame or guilt, cut trees for selfish gain are not aware that their actions will destroy their children’s future? Post-truth era scholars argue that, in this globalised world, governments, institutions and individuals, especially those in high positions of power, practise falsehoods as a means to achieving their goals (at the expense of truth). For this reason, several propaganda firms, compromised media, public relations firms and many other platforms persuasively trading lies have emerged. Ironically, these entities make huge incomes from the dubious business that is devoid of truth. The scholars argue that all the hullaballoo about fake news, for example, is nothing but a blockage of truth. EGO There is a whole new culture (if you will) of people who do not want to operate in the sphere of truth for it goes against their ego goals. To ignore, hide, bury or resist truth promotes the individual, community, ethnic or even national ego. The bigger the ego, the less the truth. But still, that tells us only in part what truth is. The Pilate question to Jesus is very clear: You say you are a witness of the truth ... what is truth? Without falling into the temptation of giving several definitions, some of which are in the controversial domain of relativism, and since we are in the paschal season, the definition that stands out is, again, from the Good Book. Truth, defined by its function, sets us free. In other words, truth is liberation. The understanding, therefore, that truth liberates — sets us free — means truth, whatever the definition one adopts, has one end: Setting the truth bearer and the truth seeker free. FREEDOMThe attendant question to this definition is why freedom is so important that truth becomes its cornerstone. The answer is simple: A person is fully functional in freedom. The Constitution, for instance, is largely about freedom for individuals and the country. Freedom is the basis of our being human. Therefore, it is difficult to be free if we are not truthful. No amount of reforms (electoral or constitutional, for instance) will set us free without truth. The high level of corruption in every sector, supported by weak institutions that lack independence and, therefore, authority, we can strongly argue that behind all these social and structural challenges the big egos in town are not committed to truth and everyone’s freedom. CAMPAIGN PLEDGESIf one were to make a record of successfully implemented promises by our leaders, the hard truth is that most of it is hot air that seemingly cools to be the oxygen we breathe. That, perhaps, explains why we do not question or make meaningful follow-ups to the many wonderful master plans. Elsewhere, the US is struggling to find the truth if, indeed, Russia interfered with its 2016 elections. Many African countries struggle to “move on” after election s marked with anxiety, violence and deaths. Until we start living in truth we will never know freedom. not when pedalling lies becomes a way of life. Dr Mokua is executive director, Jesuit Hakimani Centre. hakimanidirector@gmail.com  