Political transition has remained a tricky affair for many countries in Africa. Every so often, they literally walk through a minefield as they move from one political dispensation to the next in the wake of elections. Even so, this only happens in a few countries that have some semblance of political stability and hold periodic elections that strive to meet basic thresholds of democracy. For the others, however, there is a tendency by incumbents to cling to power, sometimes to death, and polls are just a rubberstamp. Other incumbents forestall their departure from office by engineering constitutional changes to remove term limits using parliament or deploy the military and other forms of state power to crush opponents. This glaring violation of the respective constitutions has been a major cause of violence and political upheavals. RULE OF LAW Kenya is among countries that have witnessed political transitions on a regular basis in line with the Constitution. But even so, the elections have always had their fair share of controversy, tension and even violence amid claims of rigging. One of the challenges to peaceful transition in Africa is lack of good governance backed by strong and independent institutions that put all leaders — the president included — under the rule of law. Many of the countries have the ‘Big Man’ syndrome, in which the president is viewed as being above everyone and everything, including the Constitution. This makes it virtually impossible for them to be held to account for the excesses of their regimes, spawning a culture of impunity in which such leaders and their cronies do not feel obliged to obey the law. Drunk with State power, they are tempted to retain it by all means. MILITARYThe other hindrance is politicisation of the military. Seen by many leaders as the ultimate bulwark against forces — democratic and otherwise — that may want to remove them from office, the military has been misused to defy the law and resist transfer of power. This (mis)use of the military has always left the nations worse off as it leads to disgruntlement within the population and even the forces, leading to long-drawn out conflict and even civil war. Lack of a strong civil society has also been a big drawback as there is no voice to champion democracy and demand accountability from leaders. ETHNICITY In the circumstances, incumbents do not feel obliged to subscribe to the dictates of law — leave alone peaceful succession. These institutions must be strengthened and the leadership forced to be sensitive to the needs of the citizens. That includes adherence to the rule of law and a requirement for leaders to pass the baton. The other challenge is the notion of majority versus minority. In some countries, the concept of democracy has been interpreted against the backdrop of winner-takes-it-all elections. Sadly, the winner here is usually the one who marshals votes from the largest ethnic enclaves with the tribes used against each other based on their numerical strength. POVERTYThis leads to disaffection with the minorities feeling disenfranchised and resorting to violence to be heard. Femi Falana, a Nigerian lawyer and indefatigable human rights activist, observes that for Africa to move forward governments must confront the challenges of poverty, underdevelopment, illiteracy, disease and militarisation. Only then will the people feel adequately emancipated to hold their governments to account and ensure the rule of law as a way of entrenching democracy and ensuring political stability. Mr Sangura, the bursar of Teremi High School, is an MBA student at Kibabii University. sangurapius@gmail.com  