Kenya Meteorological Department has said rains will continue to pound various parts of the country. “Several parts of the country will continue receiving rainfall next week with some areas in the Lake region and around the Rift Valley highlands experiencing intense showers and thunderstorms,” said Meteorological Services Director Peter Ambenje. Heavy rains have been pounding the country this week have led to flash floods in various areas including Makueni and Turkana counties, Suswa on the Narok-Maai Mahiu Road, and Kisumu where the River Nyando broke its banks more than a week ago. WESTERN According to the latest weatherman’s forecast covering between April 21 and 25, Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo and Uasin Gishu counties will experience rains in the morning for the next three days. This will give way to showers and thunderstorm over several places in the afternoon with temperatures falling to lows of 10C. Similar weather patterns will also be experienced in Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Kajiado, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia counties which are in are in the same geographical zones. CENTRAL Central highlands which cover Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, and Tharaka Nithi counties will experience rains over many places in the morning throughout the forecast period, giving way to showers over several places in the afternoon. The temperatures will also be low ranging between 10 °C and 25°C. NORTHEASTERN Rainfall will also be experienced in the North eastern part of the country with Marsabit, Isiolo, Mandera, Wajir and Garissa counties to receive morning rains and afternoon showers for the next three days. The same will also extend to the Coastal counties of Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale where several places will experience showers both in the morning and in the afternoon throughout the forecast period. EASTERN Kajiado, Kitui, Makueni, Machakos and Taita Taveta counties will experience rains in the morning over several places giving way to showers in the afternoon with temperatures between 15°C and 31°C. However, Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu counties will only experience rain on Monday.   National Police Service says efforts to clear the debris are underway.