Newcomers Butere Girls and Sigalame High will be out to upset the form book as the Brookside Term One National Secondary School Games conclude on Saturday at Kangaru School, Embu County. The two Western Region schools will contest in the girls’ and boys’ basketball final against champions Kaya Tiwi and Laiser Hill respectively. In rugby 15s, new champions will be crowned as Upper Hill tackle Menengai High, who ousted champions Kakamega High 20-16 in the semis. Upper Hill downed St Mary’s Yala 24-3 in the other last four encounter. Girls’ hockey will also see new winners crowned as Tigoi Girls and Trans Nzoia battle for the title. Champions St Anthony’s Kitale face a determined Upper Hill in the boys’ final in a repeat of last year’s final won by the former. Moi Girls Kamusinga and Kimilili Boys will fancy their chances of reclaiming their handball crowns as they battle Sega and  Kanyawanga in the finals. Butere Girls and Sigalame have lit up the competition on their debuts and their appearances in today’s basketball final is well deserved after impressive displays. To get to the final, Butere saw off two-time winners Buru Buru Girls 63-53 in the semi-final on Friday in a pulsating tie that went to overtime. Irene Were starred for Butere with 33 points as Chantal Kiobe led Buru Buru’s offense with 27 points. Were believes reaching the final is already an achievement and winning the title would be a bonus. “Our resilience and never-say-attitude has carried us all through and whatever the result tomorrow, we are already winners,” Were said. Kaya scrapped through to the final after a slim 31-29 over Loreto. And with the sleek Butere already beating Kaya 74-65 in the preliminary stage, tension is high in Saturday’s match. Said Kaya Tiwi coach Philip Onyango: “We had never played them and thus were caught out by their high pressing. We have a game plan to stop them and I am sure the girls will exact revenge.” In the boys’ basketball final, Laiser Hill, who are hunting for a seventh title, will be looking for their second win against Sigalame after downing the newcomers 76-57 in the preliminary stage. Laiser saw off Ambira Boys 55-23 in the semis as Sigalame crushed Meru School 86-43 in the other duel for a place in the final.  Laiser’s Robert Jasire top-scored for his side with 12 points with Stephen Taban leading Ambira with eight points. Laiser Hill skipper Sheldon Ouma is confident they can defend their title after another impressive run. “The team spirit, experience and morale in the squad is good and we believe we will bring our A game in the final,” Ouma said. Laiser Hill led 17-6 in the first quarter before increasing their lead to 29-14 at halftime. The Rift Valley side would outscore their opponents 10-4 and 16-5 in the last two quarters to stroll to victory. Their coach Anthony Kirimi said they were wary of Sigalame. In the hockey semi-final, Tigoi secured a 4-0 win over Kerugoya Girls thanks to a brace from Joan Anjao and a goal each from Adeline Murengu and Hope Misiko. Trans Nzoia on the other hand needed post-match penalties to overcome Nyamira Girls 3-0 after a 1-1 deadlock. In the boys’ results, St Anthony’s saw off Musingu 1-0 as Upper Hill - coached by Dennis Wekesa - also recorded a similar scoreline against East Africa champions Kisumu Day, in a tense match settled via a penalty flick scored by Elisha Ogecha in the dying minutes.  