The Diplomatic Police Unit commandant who drowned two weeks ago alongside his brother in a flooded Makueni river has been buried. The senior police officer, Charles Kyale Mwau, drowned in a flooded Kwa Kaluku River along Sultan Hamud-Kasikeu road in Makueni County as he drove home accompanied by his younger brother, Paul Kimuyu. The brothers were buried at their Uvilani Village in Makueni County in a ceremony attended by Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka and Mr Larry Kieng, Deputy Inspector of Police. PATRIOT President Uhuru Kenyatta, Mr Musyoka and the Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinett eulogised the police boss as a hardworking and selfless patriot. The late police officer cut his teeth at the General Service Unit before he rose through the ranks to become the head of the Diplomatic Police Unit. At one point, he served as the commander of Mr Musyoka’s bodyguards when the Wiper leader was the vice president. “He discharged his responsibilities with remarkable diligence and devotion which only a few days ago deservedly earned him the appointment as the commanding officer of the Diplomatic Police Unit,” said President Kenyatta in a condolence message read to the bereaved family by Makueni County Commissioner Maalim Mohammed. “We shall forever be thankful for his dedication to duty and the pride with which he served our nation,” added President Kenyatta. Mr Musyoka hailed the late police boss as an officer who was dedicated to his work. Further, the police officer was praised for having worked closely with the local community in the fight against wanton sand harvesting that has dogged his home area. "We should, therefore, commit to furthering the fight against sand harvesting in Makueni County in Mr Mwau’s honour,” said Makueni County Assembly Speaker Douglas Mbilu. Mr Mbilu’s remarks were echoed by Makueni Woman Representative Rose Museo, Deputy Governor Adelina Mwau, and MPs Joshua Kimilu (Kaiti) and his Kilome counterpart Thaddeus Nzambia. The late Mwau is survived by Ms Everlyne Ndinda and six children while his brother is survived by Ms Ann Ndoti and six children.   His car was swept away by a flooded river.