In a setting similar to a movie scene, paintings of an up-and-coming artist who identifies as both Somali and Kenyan hanged on the walls of a little restaurant in Brooklyn, New York. It was a space she had spent a lot of time in as she navigated life in the city, and now, the young Deqa Abshir, who had just completed her studies at Hunters College, where she did a BA in Studio Art and Women Studies, seemed to be giving New York a final goodbye. It was 2006. HOME “I wanted to come back home so badly,” Deqa says while sitting on an outdoor bench in the expansive garden behind her Nairobi home, where she maintains a painting studio. “After all I had learnt in New York, I was extremely eager to come and do something meaningful at home.” Nairobi may be home for Deqa, just as New York was for a time, but the question of home and identity has never been an easy one for the artist. Inside her studio, which acts as both an artistic experimentation lab and exhibition room for her finished paintings, an easel at the centre is surrounded by remaining pieces out of her old collections and the growing catalogue of her recently finished works. Experimenting continues to be a life-long project, her latest two pursuits being exploring new mediums, and stretching the boundaries of how multimedia platforms can enrich artistic experiences.   CULTURE Deqa’s artwork over the years point to her societal inquisition, looking at her surroundings and engaging with the things that bother and inspire her. From creating an imaginary city, exploring both the dynamic and static nature of urban spaces, she presents stylised images of common features one may bump into in Nairobi. Away from the city, she focuses her lenses on culture. It is inescapable that whenever there is a human protagonist in any of Deqa’s paintings, it has to be a woman — their role, she says, is that of “storytellers” and “protectors of society”. There is no doubt that Kenya and Somalia, Nairobi and Mogadishu, and especially Puntland, which is where she traces her roots, are a big influence. “I am a Somali who was born and raised in Kenya, and I am always sensitive on both my Kenyan and Somali identities, not wanting one to swallow the other,” Deqa says as she shows me a recent work, “Foundations”, which is heavily influenced by the ‘waab’ (Somali traditional hut).   Deqa studied art in high school, using it to explore her questions on belonging. It was while exploring her twin identities that a month-long trip to Somalia as part of a school assignment — a turning point in her life — happened. The time spent in different parts of Puntland, where her paternal family originates, answered many of her questions on identity and culture. “I had always wondered what Somalia was like,” she says, “and spending time with my family in their homes gave me a sense of what my roots were, much as I had a major culture shock.” I BELONGED She explains the trip was hard, yet fulfilling. “I learned the value of community, culture, family and, most importantly, belonging,” she says, “I have been back to Somalia countless times since, but I carry that experience with me every day.”   Looking back, one sees how her journey of discovery deeply influenced Deqa’s passion for art as a medium in encouraging children to express themselves and engage their social and cultural environments. Deqa has built a rigorous practice over time around mentoring and teaching children through artistic workshops. She has held children’s workshops in London, Bristol, Nairobi and different parts of Somalia, where she intends to roll out an upcoming project to reinforce the practice of art as a tool for self-expression and societal exploration. Her dream is to run the children’s workshops across East Africa and beyond. “Art is powerful,” she says. “Making it accessible to children gives them power to navigate life and immerse themselves in imagination. It is a necessary tool for fun, growth and change.” Since returning to Kenya, Deqa has exhibited her work widely in group and solo exhibitions. At 35, Deqa says her journey of discovery is still ongoing. Her latest work — a series of six self-portraits, an experimental project — lies on her dining table. “I feel like I have gone full circle,” Deqa says. “I started out as an artist, got inspired to become an art teacher, then my teaching experience inspired me to come back and merge my art education and art practice, making me oscillate between an artist and an educator.”  Twitter: @IsaacOtidiAmuke   Although the city wants to treat them like undesirables, to Wanjohi they are hardworking people.