Kenyan politicians in ‘full cheer’ ******A group of about 10 Kenyan Members of Parliament and Senate here are expected to follow the Games on a “benchmarking” mission. They were to visit all venues, cheer all the athletes and also visit various sports officials in Gold Coast, ready to implement various sports development programmes, including construction of modern stadiums in their counties. They were to also seek funding from the Australian government to develop Kenyan sport. Well, the only worry is they haven’t done any of the above, so far… Drunk policeman in trouble ******An off-duty police officer is facing disciplinary action after being ejected from a Gold Coast pub for being drunk. Sources say the policeman, one of 3,700 assigned to secure the Games, was thrown out of a bar on Surfers Paradise where local liquor rules ban drunk people from bar-hopping. “The matter has been referred to the Ethical Standards Command for assessment and investigation. The officer in question has been returned to the Brisbane Region,” a police spokesman said on Monday. Minister leading from the front *****Cabinet Minister Kate Jones is wearing a different local dress each day here to show support for local tailors, Leina Broughton. She will wear a dozen Leina Broughton dresses over 12 days here to make a fashion statement in support of the local businesses. “There’s so much great stuff happening on the Gold Coast, including in the fashion industry. I thought the Games was a unique opportunity to showcase a local designer,” the Minister for Tourism, Major Events and the Commonwealth Games told journalists. Boxer’s huge fine for brawl *****Organisers have banned an Irish boxer from the Games after he attacked a bouncer at a popular strip club in Surfers Paradise here. Welterweight Sean McComb, 25, who lost in the quarters, caused a scene at 3am, throwing punches at bouncers as though he was in the ring. He was fined 756 Australian dollars (about Sh60,000) for public nuisance. He has also been banned from the Sin City Nightclub and the general area of Surfers Paradise entertainment district, an area strewn with pubs, nightclubs and strip joints.   Australia has six state governments and 10 territories, two of them on the mainland.