Kenya Sevens suffered two yellow cards in the first half to ruin a great final as Fiji pulled a 24-12 victory to retain Hong Kong Sevens title at Hong Kong Stadium on Sunday. Collins Injera and William Ambaka, who were the heroes in Kenya’s 21-12 semi-final victory against New Zealand, turned to villains when they were sin-binned almost simultaneously for infringement. Fiji would cash on their numbers to score two quick tries from Eroni Sau and Amenoni to supplement Josua Vakurunabili’s opening try. Fiji led 17-0 at the break in the final that was a repeat of the Canada Sevens final where the islanders also won 29-7. Kenya ploughed back with some thrilling phases that saw Billy “The Kid” Odhiambo score, but Valemo Ravouvou’s try dimmed their hopes. Skipper Oscar Ouma showed Kenya's power with his final surge to the line after he tapped the ball from a penalty to score his 77th try, but it was little too late to rescue Shujaa. Kenya once again got 19 points from their exploits to scale one place to seventh with 83 points, dislodging England, who dropped to eighth with 71 points, after they got one point for finishing last in Hong Kong. Fiji, which is the only team that has lifted more than two titles this season, having prevailed in New Zealand and Canada, closed the gap on Series leaders South Africa by three points on top of the World Rugby Sevens Series standings. Fiji bolstered their tally to 123 points, while South Africa, who edged out New Zealand 24-7 to win bronze in Hong Kong, top with 126 points following their previous win in Dubai. Kenya, South Africa, New Zealand, Fiji, Canada and Australia now shift their focus to the ongoing 2018 Commonwealth Games, where the rugby sevens competition will be played from April 13 to 15 at the Robina Stadium in Gold Coast, Australia. Kenya Sevens will meet New Zealand, Canada and Zambia in Pool “C”. The teams will then move to Singapore for the Singapore Sevens, the eighth leg of the World Rugby Sevens Series due April 28 and 29 at the National Stadium.   Shujaa will now meet Fiji in the final.