Mankind, the duo of Mane and The cloak, got Sh1 million as a grant from a British Council East Africa Arts programme called New Arts New Audiences (nana). Eugene Lowell Okumu and Brian Ochieng have  produced and directed their own movie and also made the entire soundtrack. They spoke to HILARY KIMUYU on where they have been in the last two years, and why they keep insisting school is for ‘losers’  It’s been a couple of years since you released new music, what have you been up to? We have been making music in studio and trying to get the right sound. Plus we have also been on location making a short film which will be out any time now.  When can we expect the new music? Hopefully, you will listen to what we have been doing before the end of next month. But don’t expect much because we have been recording it for ourselves.  You are under Sony Music, how did you get signed? We have a very good manager who is out there making sure that our dreams are fulfilled. That is why we have not released anything in the last two years because we were working on this deal.  Various artistes in Kenya were also signed under Sony and they said it was not a walk in the park, how is your experience with the recording company? The difference with what we have is that they were signed under artiste management deals while we signed under a publisher deal. That difference means it is a bit easier on our side because we are not obligated to do as much as they had to. It’s the other way round, Sony does a lot of work for us.  How was high school and why despite scoring A’s do you say school is for losers? We studied in the middle of nowhere, in a school called Maranda. For us, we came to realise that school teaches you how to do the job and not how to do a good job. If you go to school, you get taught the same way of doing something, but if you experiment, you learn different ways - you adapt and become street smarter. At the end of the day you will find most of the people in school are studying something they do not want to do later on in their lives. We know it is a very arrogant statement saying that school is for losers, but at the end of the day this is us.  Young people who look up to you and are in school right now might get the wrong message. Don’t you think they need foundation just like you did? There is a lot more to life out there than spending the whole day in school. You could be out on the streets perfecting your photography, modelling and many other things that you want to do in life. Foundation does not necessarily mean you have to be in school. What we can say to the young ones out there is, first go to a bunch of schools so that you can see how ineffective they are. You need to be in school and then judge for yourselves. Both of you got your foundation at a national school, why did you quit then? That was our parents’ decisions, it wasn’t our intent. We met and made music, and it worked out well.  How did your parents react when you said you will not go to college? They were very unhappy. I don’t think any parent is happy when their child tells them hey will not be going to college. At the end of the day, it’s all about being responsible. We are making a living out of what we do now.  (Mane) My mother pretends to be cool with it now.  (The Cloak) I think my mother’s acting skills are getting better.  How did you get the funds from British Council to make your movie? I was on my way home when a friend called and told me that the British Council was doing an open call to every creative group in Nairobi to go and pitch ideas. So we came up with a short film, some tracks for it and photography. And that is how we got the grant. At the end we got almost Sh1 million to go and have fun. That is exactly what the memo said, “go have fun”.  What is the movie about? The movie is called “Meet Me Outside” and is basically about some of the experiences we have gone through, though not so much about us. We met people who had gone through the experiences and related to, so by extension and stories of some of the people we spoke to, it came easy and we translated that to narration. We wrote the movie together and also did the sound track.  Why shoot it in a different country and not Kenya? We shot it in Zanzibar because there is not so much bureaucracy like here and it is a chilled country. But it was not only in Zanzibar. it was also based in Nairobi and London.  When will it be out? Next month and it will be released on all social media platforms. The film is 12 minutes long, which translates to four minutes in Nairobi, four minutes in Zanzibar and four minutes in London.  Of the three locations which was the most difficult to shoot? Nairobi was and we did not expect it to be that difficult because it is home. The rest of the locations were easy and the people were so helpful. How do balance the two, music and film? We actually don’t do film, this is our first feature. We do music; we are simply musicians.  What are you working on right now? The album, Head Start, has 13 tracks and it is being released under Pinecreek. The movie, which people can watch on social media next month, comes out with an EP, which is under Sony Music, and is the sound track of the movie to be released alongside the movie.  ***  QUICKFIRE  THE CLOAK The last thing you liked on social media? A picture of a cat. Four things you will change about yourself? My height, my weight, my propensity towards bright things and my dishonesty towards my propensity towards bright things. What is the last lie you told? I liked a picture of a cat. On a scale of one to ten, how cool are you? I’m like a two. What is the best advantage of being short? I get to look up at girls when I kiss them. What city in Kenya should not exist in a map and why? Wajir, because I have never been there.  M A N E What are your quirks? I listen to classical music when I’m reading and eating food. What is the weirdest place you could get stuck? Luthuli Avenue (in Nairobi). If you could by any food right now what would you buy? Pizza, I love pizza. What colour is your tooth brush? Blue. If a movie was made about your life, who would play it and what genre will it be and why? Thriller and Michael Jackson will come back to play it. What is the strangest thing you have ever eaten? Octopus. What is your biggest addiction? Netflix.   Mankind talks about being signed to Sony Music, and the Sh1 million movie