The meteorological department has warned of an increase in rainfall in the northern and eastern parts of the country for the next seven days running to Monday next week. Heavy showers and thunderstorms will be witnessed in these regions, despite a slight reduction in rainfall amounts witnessed at the beginning of the forecast period. HIGHLANDS Kenya Meteorological Services Director Peter Ambenje on Tuesday said that in the last one week, several parts of the country received heavy rainfall with amounts increasing in Central, Northeaster, Coast, Lake Basin and highlands along the Rift Valley. “Flash floods were reported in various parts of the country including Makueni and Turkana counties; Suswa along the Narok-Maai Mahiu road and Kisumu where the River Nyando broke its banks,” the director said. According to the forecast covering April 17 to 23, Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo counties will continue to have rains in the mornings and afternoons, with the showers  getting relatively heavier on Friday. Central highlands which cover Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang’a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, and Tharaka Nithi counties will have cloudy mornings with light rains. Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu counties will largely remain sunny for the next seven days. Morning rains and afternoon showers and thunderstorms may occur over few places on Thursday and Friday. NYANZA Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo and Uasin Gishu counties will experience sunny spells in the morning but these will give way to showers and thunderstorms in the afternoon  for much of the seven days, save for Wednesday when reduced precipitation is expected. Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Kajiado, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia counties will have a similar weather pattern. Southeastern counties of Kitui, Makueni, Machakos and Taita Taveta will experience sunny days with a possibility of rains in the morning. The rains are likely to be heavier on Saturday. Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale will continue experiencing morning showers over several places which are likely to be heavier on Thursday and Saturday.  