A cynic, in my book, is a Nation classifieds reader who doubts an advertiser’s true motives without one iota of evidence. We are partly to blame for creating such cynics. This column has exposed fraudulent advertisers, and the Nation Ad Centre advises readers to make appropriate enquiries before sending money. This has contributed to the cynicism. Their modus operandi is to take a suspecting posture as a defensive mechanism to protect themselves against fraudsters. They thus lose their ability to be human, to feel emotionally touched to help sick people who appeal for donations. They use their suspicions as an excuse not to donate. MEDICAL APPEALIn the case of Claire Muthoni Thuo medical appeal, the cynics — and they were quite a number — went a wee bit too far. They distrusted the ads apparently because they were too many! They became so sceptical that it became unhealthy. They were so negative that they spawned conspiracy theories. I know this because of the number of “Is this advertisement another con job?” queries that I received. Following persistent queries from suspicious readers, I checked with the Ad Centre on March 9 how often the advertisements had run. LEUKAEMIA There were 51 insertions, costing Sh12,180 each — that is a total of Sh621,180. The cynics saw the number of insertions, and the amount paid for them, as proof of a confidence trick. “My name is Claire Muthoni Thuo aged four years,” the ads read. “I underwent a bone marrow transplant five months ago and producing normal cells for the treatment of leukaemia at Apollo Ahmedabad in India. "The challenge I have is recurrent infections that has increased my hospital stay thus a high medical bill. “So far 10.8 million has been settled and an estimated cost of 4.9 million is required. "I am re-appealing to well-wishers to help my parents in raising the pending medical bill through M-Pesa Paybill No. 759616 or to Equity Bank, Kenyatta Avenue Branch, account name Claire Muthoni Medical Fund, Account No. 1290173133950. M-Pesa No. 0792876416. God bless you.” GENUINEThe Ad Centre proved time and again the medical appeal was genuine and, it was, in my view, one of the most moving I have read. Baby Claire was battling with leukaemia, a cancer of the blood that develops in the bone marrow. She was three when she was diagnosed with acute myeloid leukaemia, which occurs in children and adults. It progresses quickly and can become fatal in a few months. Her father, Gidraff Thuo Mwangi, donated the bone marrow for the transplant. The family needed Sh10 million for the medical expenses. They sold a parcel of land in Meru, organised harambees and sought help from relatives and friends. They used their NHIF card to top up but the money was still not enough; hence the numerous Daily Nation ads in which Baby Claire, now with a puffed-up face that made her look older than she was, became a familiar sight in the Nation classifieds pages. FUNERALShe died on April 1, shortly after returning from India, at Kenyatta National Hospital’s High Dependency Unit (HDU), where a deposit of Sh200,000 is required and a bed is charged at Sh15,000 per night. Baby Claire, who was born on December 17, 2013, will be buried today at Gikui village in Murang’a. In the funeral announcement on Tuesday, the family said: “Although Baby Claire has finally rested, the family remains forever grateful to all friends, well-wishers and all people of goodwill for your immense support and prayers through Baby Claire’s illness.” BILLS The family, however, is still appealing for donations to pay pending bills. The cynics should now drop their suspicions and open their wallets. The Baby Claire medical misfortune can befall any typical Kenyan family and the Nation classifieds should remain a dependable forum for appeals. May the Lord grant her eternal rest and let perpetual light shine upon her. May she rest in peace. Amen. Send your complaints to publiceditor@ke.nationmedia.com. Call 3288000, mobile 0721 989 264  