The introduction of the devolved system of governance by the 2010 Constitution heralded a great beginning for the country; there is no question that the future of development lies in devolution. The primary objective of decentralisation was to devolve power, resources and representation down to the grassroots. Five years since embracing the new dispensation, remarkable economic progress has been achieved in various parts of the country. These successes have, however, not been without challenges, which have been extensively covered in the media. MEDIAA keener scrutiny of the media coverage, however, is likely to reveal that most of it tends to focus on the challenges at the expense of the success stories. While striking a balance in the coverage of all aspects of devolution is important, it is unfortunate that the negatives of this form of governance have been told the most. The media have a critical role in promoting the devolution agenda — hence an urgent need to have increased and in-depth coverage of the county governments if Kenyans are to hold them accountable for services. Likewise, other institutions directly or indirectly related to devolution in Kenya — including the Senate, Controller of Budget, Auditor-General and the Commission on Revenue Allocation — must be interrogated as well. CHALLENGESIn fact, a 2013 media monitoring report on the coverage of devolution by the Media Council of Kenya (MCK) showed that media were yet to embrace development journalism and did not do well in showcasing success stories in the counties. It said the frequency of articles and clips that reported on successes from various counties was very “minimal”. From the sampled material, the MCK study concluded that the media performed well in highlighting challenges and managing the expectations of citizens. It, however, went ahead to recommend that that should not only be the focus, but also be extended to reporting on success stories and comparison of progress between the regions. This is so because every region has its own share of the national cake and has no right to blame marginalisation for its lack of progress. AWARENESSBut even as the Fourth Estate — as the media are commonly referred to — remains vigilant in monitoring the implementation of devolution, there is a need for the county governments to “devolve” information. Governors and their directors of communication should give space for journalists to operate by interviewing county officials. That will, in turn, help to reduce emphasis on individuals and personalities as reported in most outlets and strengthen reportage on issues that really matter. Also, the County Governments Act 2012 requires that regional governments use the media to create awareness on devolution and governance; promote citizens’ understanding for peace and national cohesion; undertake advocacy on core development issues such as agriculture, education, health, security, economics and sustainable environment; and promote press freedom. Nevertheless, journalists should also adhere to the code of conduct for the practice of journalism, which states that all sides of the story should be reported where possible. For print and digital media, headlines must be quantified by the content below them, and so forth. RELATIONSThat said, newspapers and radio, television stations, as well as digital outlets, should allocate more time and space to topical issues that will improve county editions in their respective enterprises as they are platforms that can effectively reach the audiences in the devolved units. We must set the real agenda of devolution by creating awareness to the public and remain focused on the relevant issues that affect the day-to-day lives of Kenyans. Those covering development journalism should also be well-versed with the various laws on counties and devolution. These include the County Governments Act 2012; Intergovernmental Relations Act 2012; Urban Area and Cities Act 2011; Public Finance Management Act 2014; Public Finance Management Act 2012; and National Government Co-ordination 2013. The story of devolution should, therefore, be told differently to avoid all the negativity and suspicion, while the media and county governments should have a closer partnership for devolution to be a success. Mr Kimanthi, a reporter with the Daily Nation, who is based in Nairobi, has worked in Meru and Nyeri regional bureaus. kkimanthi@ke.nationmedia.com  