From the loud silence after a video clip of a woman being raped in broad daylight you can only conclude rape is a women’s problem. Women are the ones affected. Women must solve this problem themselves because women rape themselves. The clip of the “rape entertainment” was two and a half minutes long. That in the full glare of whoever was near, whoever was clicking away, whoever was acting in shock or whoever is heard cheering on, the horror and terror of the woman being attacked was not enough for some swift action; it did not invoke any kind of fury to force anyone into action to come to her rescue. PROTECTIt must have been one of those “surreal scenarios” where you observe something amusing you look, frown or smile, then continue with your business. Yeah, I mean rape really in the eyes of those “film-watchers” is nothing but cheap entertainment. Once upon a time, when the world was young and innocent, we are meant to believe men actually respected women and girls. We are told any man worth the title of a MAN would look onto his hands and acknowledge what they were meant to do; to love and to protect women — any woman! These days we are told that the man, as was once known, has since evolved so much and mutated his affirmation and power so strongly that he does so much more than just love and protect. AGGRESSIONIt does not take an experience for a woman to shudder and die inside to imagine that someone is violently and viciously forcing himself on her. It just takes a woman to be a woman to know that any act of aggression against her body or any other woman’s body is an affront to the very core of her being. Let us not talk about the police. The police are there. Let us not talk about the law, the laws are there. Let us not talk about the political class, we have an overflow that is choking us to the core. Let us talk about the hands of men who in their wisdom see it fit to take by force that which does not belong to them. DANGER Let us talk about the minds and hearts of men who in knowing that they ought to spring up to protect and protest instead sit back and laugh. Let us talk about your 12-year-old daughter making her way from school in an alley grabbed and violently raped. Let us talk about your lovely wife cornered in the office by a sadistic boss forcing himself onto her in the desperation of her economic situation. Let us talk about your pretty girlfriend out with friends whose drink is spiked by criminals and she wakes up on a strange bed with the bloodied evidence of her rape marking her every breath. No, why don’t we talk about the reality of the fact that no woman whatsoever asks to be raped but every man who does actually chooses to do it! SAFETYSpeak your importance as man — yes, a man! Speak of your importance and let us hear you repeat as always that rape is a women’s issue. Sip your tea and move on swiftly to other important matters like the devolution conference, global warming, foreign direct investments and the market fluctuations in the bourse. These are the important things. Forget about women being raped, because after all, your mother, wife, sister or daughter is definitely rape-proof. The writer is a transformational leadership coach and the head of communications at the African Women’s Development & Communications Network ngesamildred@gmail.com  