Kamau Ngotho continues to regale Nation readers with reminiscences of his journalistic exploits. His reflections and anecdotes are invariably fascinating, often entertaining. However, his latest memoirs, Playing Spy on Comoros Islands (Sunday Nation, April 1), raises some ethical and professional questions. He was assigned to go to the Comoros to gather background information on Fazul Mohamed, the terrorist who engineered the August 7, 1998 United States embassy bombing in Nairobi. “When I was in active journalism, I struck a friendship with a gentleman from the intelligence service whom I will identify only as BC. I was not an ‘informer’ to him. Our relationship was peer to peer,” he explains. “We met to compare notes, but he was like a sponge, absorbing everything and releasing too little unless squeezed. "However, on at least two occasions, he gave me information that made headlines.” COMOROS TRIPMr Ngotho was not “in full-time employment” at the time of the assignment. He saw “no problem” in accepting the mission so long as it was not in a war zone. So, he flew to the Comoros to gather information about Fazul Mohamed. “The intelligence service wanted Fazul’s story done by a journalist and published in the media as part of an awareness campaign that terrorists live among us,” Mr Ngotho added. SOURCESHe lied to the Comoros consulate that he was going to do a backgrounder on presidential elections in the islands. In the Comoros, he talked to his sources, including a political science professor, using the same subterfuge. “The Nation ran my story in a two-day series, while I wrote a longer report for my friend in the intelligence service. "I had successfully played spy and scribe at the same time. More importantly, in a small way, I felt I had avenged for my two friends who perished in the 1998 terrorist bombing,” he concludes in his article. What Mr Ngotho did is common in the world of journalism and espionage. PUBLIC TRUST However, it has increasingly become questionable because any partnership, connection or interdependence with intelligence organisations undermines the credibility and public trust of the media. I have borrowed the title of this article from another by Murray Seeger, Spies and Journalists: Taking a Look at Their Intersections, which appears in the September 11, 2009 Nieman Reports published by Nieman Foundation for Journalism at Harvard, an organisation dedicated to promoting and elevating standards of journalism. The article shows how intelligence agencies recruit journalists for intelligence gathering because of their ability to ask questions without raising suspicion, access to inside sources and confidential information and insights into politics and policy. Detectives also use journalistic cover (press cards and affiliations to media organisations). “Spies and journalists, journalists and spies: Is there a difference?” Seeger asks. INDEPENDENCEIn the search for information, the two professions sometimes come together — to the disadvantage of the media. Spy agencies not only use journalists because they provide the best cover for intelligence gathering but also compromise the independence of the media by planting stories. But by using journalism as a cover for their covert activities, intelligence agencies put journalists in jeopardy — especially in hostile environments. Journalists should not work for intelligence or undercover sleuths who use journalistic cover. When journalists work for intelligence organisations they operate in disguise, which is unethical. Even the perception is bad enough. Journalists should never give the impression that they are working for someone else or a second, secret agenda. Journalists should never be mistaken for spooks. Send your complaints to publiceditor@ke.nationmedia.com. Call 3288000, mobile 0721 989 264   Detectives also use journalistic cover (press cards and affiliations to media organisations).