Kenyan media groggy with sleep ****** Kenyan journalists covering the Commonwealth Games have hardly slept over the last week. Their bodies still tuned to Kenyan time, which is seven hours behind Gold Coast time, they find themselves wide awake at 4am, local time, having knocked off from the Carrara Stadium’s Media Centre at 2am. Worse still, those eager to follow European football, like Citizen TV’s Mike Okinyi, a staunch Real Madrid fan, find themselves up at 5am, local time, which is the time live European Champions League matches are televised here. Grand examples of tautology ***** A witty opinion column in TheSydney Morning Herald, caught my eye. Touching on tautology, it said: “On her segment with Clive Robertson, Caroline Jones commented that ‘there were so many restaurants in Melbourne, you could go to a different one every night and not go to the same one twice’.” It highlighted another flaw: “They should revert to the status quo, as it was before.” How about “a superficial wound to a footballer, but it was only on the surface.” English is the primary language in Australia. Angry local head-butts ex-PM ***** Trending here is the story of a certain Astro Labe who was sentenced to two months in jail by a Tasmanian court for head-butting former Prime Minister Tony Abbot. The deranged man spotted the former premier on the streets and offered to shake his hand. When Abbot obliged, Labe head-butted him, unleashing insults in the process. Interestingly, some ratbags have been hailing him as a “national hero” on Twitter. Were Labe in Kenya, politicians would demands for funds to get protective headgear! Athletes better safe than sorry ***** These are turning out to be friendly Games indeed. Organisers are reporting that over half of the 250,000 condoms supplied to the Athletes’ Village at Gold Coast’s Griffiths University have been snapped up. Kate Jones, the minister in charge of the Games, said athletes were embracing the true spirit of the friendly Games. “We billed the Commonwealth Games as the ‘friendly games’, and, certainly, they’re friendly,” Jones was quoted as saying in Australia’s ‘Daily Telegraph.’  