What do Kenyans think is the good life? A new survey reveals that most Kenyans cherish good health, family and money in that order. The key indicators of a good and comfortable life, according to majority of those surveyed are a good education, a stable career and a lot of money. Kenyans have many fears, too, but according to the Wakenya study conducted by Consumer Insight Kenya, the top five fears to the average Kenyan are death, serious illnesses such as cancer, poverty, HIV/AIDS and violence of any kind. Joblessness is also a major fear for many Kenyans. HEALTH This finding is interesting, coming against the background of the World Health Day, given that two of the top five fears are related to poor health and a third — death — can be as a result of illness or injury. Their fear of serious illness could be because most Kenyans are still averse to insurance. “Sixty-six per cent are not insured for reasons including ‘Don’t have money’, ‘Uninterested’, ‘Lack of knowledge’ and ‘Expensive,"' the survey says. Out of the 25 per cent of the respondents who said they were insured, 91 per cent have a health insurance cover, with NHIF as the leading provider at 81 per cent. “One out of every five Kenyans has opted out of modern medicine altogether, with two per cent exclusively electing to pray when they fall ill,” the survey says. READ: NHIF drops limit on hospitals for outpatient service FGM And what is it that annoys Kenyans the most? Top on the list is female genital mutilation, followed by marrying in order of birth, arranged marriages and stay-at-home mothers. READ: Worldwide FGM ban sought at 'Girl Summit' Kenyans do not seem to approve of the idea of women becoming housewives, and would rather a woman who works and contributes to the family budget. The researchers found the idea of female circumcision being the most frowned upon aspect of Kenyan life intriguing given that male circumcision received the second highest approval after respect for elders. Community welfare and the extended family also received high approval ratings. Evidently, family seems to be of utmost importance to Kenyans with over 87 per cent of the respondents saying marriage was “very important”. “The idyllic Kenyan family consists of more than two children,” the survey says. WEDDING A quarter of the respondents said they would prefer that their children were all boys, while 14 per cent preferred girls. However, 60 per cent were indifferent towards gender preference for their children. And although Kenyans are generally marrying early, they cannot afford the wedding of their dreams. “When it comes to wedding ceremonies, it seems people don’t always get what they want,” the researchers say. “The ideal ceremony is envisaged as: Religious (75 per cent), customary (49 per cent), civil (24) and come-we-stay (15). "The facts on the ground, however, fly in the face of this ideal because 39 per cent got a customary wedding, 30 per cent had a religious ceremony, 27 per cent said they were in come-we-stay arrangements and only five per cent had a civil marriage. MARRIAGES The researchers also found that 21 per cent of married folks thought it ideal to be married by the time they hit 21 years. However, the reality was that 40 per cent were married before 21. On the bright side, Kenyans will be encouraged to note that eight out 10 people reported that they were in happy marriages, with 88 per cent of those sampled saying they were in happy unions. On conflict resolution in marriages and families, relatives and religious leaders were the two top choices where the respondents choose to seek solace and advice. Marriage counsellors and friends were also deemed resourceful for marital advice, while a good number of Kenyans turn to the media and the Internet for love and marriage advice. SEXUAL PARTNERS It would also appear sex tops the agenda for most of the respondents, with 24 per cent admitting to having more than one sexual partner. This was a notable increase from previous trends. Young people and those in upper class of formed majority of those with multiple sexual partners. Young Kenyans are also increasingly having sex at an early age, with over 55 per cent saying they had their first sexual encounter before the age of 20. The study also found that 77 per cent of the respondents were sexually attractive — and this category mostly consisted of the youth and the upper class. TECHNOLOGY Digital romance has also picked up, with Kenyans now spoilt for choice with a plethora of private messaging services such as WhastApp and Telegram, some of which offer video calls at affordable rates. That, coupled with the internet penetration in the country, has provided a fertile ground for digital romances to bloom. “It transpires that digital courting is very efficient because nine per cent dated online, 81 per cent found a friend and 57 per cent are in a romantic relationship,” the survey seen by the Saturday Nation  says. Interestingly, the ideal Friday or weekend night for the average Kenyan is being at home with family and enjoying music or a good movie and good food. “Leisure activities in Kenyan society are increasingly turning inwards, meaning indoors, with a discernible emphasis on gadgetry,” the survey says. PRIVACY While social media and gadgets such as video games are increasingly popular, Kenyans would rather listen to gospel music indoors. And, according to the survey, their favourite musicians are Tanzanian gospel musicians Rose Muhando and Christina Shusho. Overall, the average Kenyan would rather listen to Tanzania’s Diamond Platinumz and Ali Kiba. Only three Kenyan musicians made it to the top 10 popular musicians; Bahati, Willy Paul and Mercy Masika.  