Back in the early 1980s there came a craze called breakdance. It started in the United States, sweeping through Europe, Africa and to the utmost ends of the world. If the twist ruled the roost in the swinging sixties, breakdance literally broke the records for a dance that was embraced by the young and the young at heart. There was even a movie about it starring Lucinda Dickey and Shaba Doo - the two youngsters who danced like a man and woman possessed. Watching the movie at Kenya Cinema in full Dolby sound system literally transported us to the streets of American cities where the dance had taken a stranglehold on many. Many are the times when students - especially those of us in city day schools- sneaked out to go and compete in breakdance on the streets. Known as “kuchomana” - or outshining one another, it came with at a great price if caught by the parents, the teachers or the crime buster who disciplined any errant student with the enthusiasm of a regimental drum sergeant- the late Patrick Shaw. It was around this time that we at Gor Mahia got a player by the name Ben Oloo. The man’s fine moment was when he was surrounded by a host of opponents and he would dance and weave with the ball making a way even where there seemed to be no way. A real soccer sorcerer. No matter how tight the marking, Oloo would always come through leaving stunned adversaries clutching at straws as the man danced his way towards the goal. For his antics, Gor Mahia fans simply called him Oloo “Breakdance” or Oloo “Break Soo” this one Sheng for something big. This was borne by the fact that he would make a screeching stop with the ball as he weighed his options. Perhaps the only other person I have watched with such confidence and talent of taking on opponents and running rings around them with the ball was the AFC Leopards and Harambee Stars star defender Hassan Juma. Unfortunately, Oloo left us and was buried over a week ago. The circumstances surrounding the death are unclear but the fact is in his death, we have lost a real son-of-the-ball who played like he was born juggling a foot ball. May he rest in peace. Back to Gor Mahia, and I have read some alarming reports that some of the club’s officials want our home leg match against South Africa’s SuperSport be taken to Kakamega’s Bukhungu Stadium. For the impressive work he has done in upgrading Bukhungu, Kakamega Governor Wycliff Oparanya has won my admiration. He has shown that as his fellow governors rush about building mansions as ridiculously as we read from Nyeri, mayoral gates, Oparanya has done well for his people. However, as we saw in our Tunis outing, we need a terrifying atmosphere as we face the enemies. At present only Machakos Stadium offers us that chance.   Ingwe signed five foreign players ahead of 2018 season.