Miguna Miguna’s biggest problem as he seeks celebrity status is his personality. He is a very disagreeable fellow. His mountain of an ego is a huge impediment in building a larger political profile for himself. People get seriously put off by such drama queens. A court order requiring Miguna to appear before a judge does not — or should not — override international travel regulations. Nor is the fact of being born in Kenya. A court order is not a travel document. PERFORATED PASSPORT Nor is an ID. It’s quite simple, really. But it bears repeating. If I use my Kenyan passport to travel, say to London, that is the document I must present for stamping where I disembark. I cannot suddenly fish out a British one, much less a British ID, and demand entry on the strength of it. I must present the passport that was first stamped in Nairobi. Rules are rules. Yes, there is the matter of Miguna’s perforated Kenyan passport, which is in the custody of the courts. Whatever the injustice of its mutilation, it is unusable now. Issuing a new one is no big deal. Filling the necessary forms — which Miguna tore up — can be expedited at JKIA. Yet this new document won’t have been of any use in Miguna’s particular circumstances. It couldn’t because it will not have an exit stamp, meaning that there is nothing to show where you are coming from. GLOBAL TERRORISM In fact, such lapses can be dangerous when you land in countries where stringent immigration vetting has been introduced because of the menace of global terrorism. The passport which got stamped in Toronto where Miguna’s journey started was the one he was required to use at JKIA. It is standard procedure at every international airport in the world. Won’t anybody see that? President Barack Obama and Pope Francis went through it in Nairobi, too. What is surprising is that the courts don’t want to understand this. Court orders must be based on realistic expectations. For instance, you cannot just wake up and order the closure of all airports. Or that foreign drug traffickers in our jails be granted Kenyan citizenship. People will start wondering what is wrong with you. Any normal court would think twice before issuing an order that imperils the security rating of its country’s premier airport. SINISTER INTENT To me, the Judiciary is misinterpreting independence to mean acting arbitrarily, and with a sinister intent. Miguna had psyched himself to cause maximum sensation as he landed in Kenya. That’s the kind of person he is. His actions were premeditated because he chose to hide his Canadian passport upon arrival at JKIA. Miguna specialises in immigration law in Toronto. This is a man who understands international air travel conventions thoroughly. It is difficult to convince me he didn’t have his JKIA melodrama all pre-planned. Right now, the only ones left standing in Miguna’s corner is a hardcore element of civil society, who promptly suspend common sense whenever there is an anti-establishment horse to ride on, even if it has fleas. For once, his Luo community is sharply divided, with one band of elders saying one thing, while angry youth say another. It is the latter group that Senator James Orengo, who has been Raila Odinga’s closest political associate and is also in Miguna’s legal team, is reaching out to when he questioned the March 9 “handshake” in light of Miguna’s treatment. THEATRICS DISPLAYED I find it a bit of a stretch the line taken by State House’s press unit that JKIA falls on no-man’s land. That is an exaggeration. However, I see their point that there is no way Miguna could have been brought in from JKIA on account of a court order without first being cleared at the Arrivals desk. He could be Kenyan or Canadian or whatever he is, that alone will not facilitate him entry if there is no travel document to show. That is why the Emirates airline he flew in agreed to take him back. Such theatrics as Miguna displayed can even hamper the ease of travel his Canadian citizenship and passport guarantee. Warigi is a socio-political commentator gitauwarigi@yahoo.com  