Boosting legal and commercial recognition for jua kali-made products could unlock jobs as demand grows making Small and Medium Enterprises(SME) intensify their activities. Investment and Industry Principal Secretary Betty Maina said SMEs will be assisted to patent their innovations giving them exclusive rights to make the products for local and foreign market. Addressing a three day workshop attended by 100 jua kali artisans at Karbarnet’s Kenya School of Government drawn from Nakuru, Baringo, Narok, Bomet, Laikipia, Kericho and Kajiado counties, Ms Maina said all products once patented receive global recognition that directly leads demand to the product’s innovator. “SMEs should take advantage of registration of intellectual properties from patents, industrial designs, utility models, trademarks and copyright to enjoy exclusive rights to a product. This will bar anyone from benefitting from your popular products,”Ms Maina said in a speech read on her behalf by Ms Josephine Onunga. The Baringo event follows two similar workshops – in Matuga in Kwale County, for over 200 MSMEs sector players from the coastal counties of Mombasa, Kwale, Kilifi, Tana River, Lamu and Taita-Taveta and in Kisumu city for those from the Lake Victoria region counties of Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Nyamira and Kisii. The workshop organised by the Kenya Industrial Property Institute(KIPI) is targeting 850 jua kali businesses with unique products that are much sought by Kenyans in the market. KIPI managing director Sylvance Sange said most businesses were suffering after unscrupulous individuals cashed in on their innovations without paying royalties. PS Maina said the sensitisation will continue across all counties with jua kali artisans assisted to protect their innovations at the local trade office. “We are advising our local manufacturers to brand and register their products so that it cannot be duplicated in the market,” said the PS. According to the 2017 Economic Survey out of 8.3 million jobs, 7.4 million are in the informal sector or MSMEs while 856,000 people work in the formal public and private sectors. ‘‘From this statistics, you can see the huge potential at your disposal if this country has to achieve its economic development goals, “she said.  