According to the British College of Policing, it is the responsibility of individual security agencies, while on duty, to ensure that their interactions and relationships with media representatives are professional, transparent and capable of withstanding scrutiny. It has been shown elsewhere that security agencies and the media can co-exist while serving two similar yet different tasks; the key thing is to develop a strong relationship prior to critical incidents. If the recent manhandling of journalists while on duty at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport by security agents is anything go by, however, we have a long way to go in learning from our counterparts on handling police and media relations in particular and respect for human rights and dignity during security operations in general. PROFESSIONAL RELATIONSThe relationship between the media and police is generally rocky worldwide because of preconceptions that each may hurt the other — which has a background in the American war in Vietnam. Then, journalists were given senior ranks — and they released true photos — leading to an outcry. However, for improved and professional reporting on national (especially security) issues, the security agencies need to change the way they deal with the media. Times have changed and new approaches aimed at enhancing professional working relations is the way to go — not creating barriers, harassing journalists and engaging in non-civil acts. POLICEJournalists are apt to respect directions given in a civilised manner; they actually respect police command when that is done respectfully rather than rudely and unprofessionally. While national security laws and administrative edicts — including laws on protected areas such as airports — are legit, assaulting journalists is not the most professional way to execute them. There is always a gap whenever the police, being the duty bearers, delay or fail to communicate simple routine matters, leading to not just human rights violations but embarrassment to the country. While citizens must obey legitimate orders, government officers must exercise professionalism, due diligence and restraint. EMBEDDED JOURNALISMBefore the Kenyan military entered Somalia, the Ministry of Defence organised high-level interactions, information exchange and knowledge-sharing sessions with the media. That was for the latter to understand the standard operating procedures on the frontline while embedded with the troops and to build trust. Why have these good practices not been documented and applied in subsequent security operations? Studies have established that, on many occasions, friction between the government and the media escalate because of inadequate liaison and information sharing, disrespect for each other’s job, lack of courtesy and the perceived power of the camera to influence events and public opinion. Harassment of journalists is a violation of the Constitution and international treaties that Kenya is party to, which guarantee freedom of the Press and access to information. TRANSPARENCY The attacks have been perpetrated by State agents and private goons and some of the cases are pending with the police. Improved relations between the media and security agencies is desirable in Kenya and police have a bigger responsibility in it. Police are in a unique position because they hold privileged information. It is actually important for them to maintain a cordial working relationship with the media to avoid improper disclosure of such information. Police can help to bridge the relationship gap by being more open to the media; they can exploit the opportunity to disseminate crime concerns. Mr Bwire is programmes manager and a journalists safety trainer at the Media Council of Kenya (MCK). victor@mediacouncil.or.ke  