Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho Friday said the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and his party leader Raila Odinga will not deter his presidential bid. Mr Joho reiterated that his quest for the presidency in 2022 is unshaken and exuded confidence that he will trounce Deputy President William Ruto to clinch the top seat. The governor, who spoke for the first time after arriving in the country mid this week from his two-month long trip overseas, said the pact between Mr Odinga and President Kenyatta would also not stop him from addressing pertinent issues affecting residents of the coastal region. CHANGE LAW “Handshake or no handshake, anything affecting the people of Coast or Mombasa in particular I will address it because that is why I was elected,” Mr Joho said during the launch of a campaign to eradicate malaria at Treasury Square in Mombasa. He said nothing will stop him from speaking his mind about the ills affecting residents including marginalisation. “This country belongs to us all and no Kenyan is better than the other,” he said. He dismissed Mr Ruto’s remarks opposing a change in the Constitution. The DP is against plans to create new political positions by changing the law, saying the country should focus on development rather than creation of positions to suit individual interests. PRIME MINISTER “Nobody owns the Constitution, it belongs to the people of Kenya and if they want it to be changed, so be it as long as it is in their interest,” said Mr Joho. Mr Ruto was referring to recent reports on a bill by Tiaty MP William Kamket that is proposing the establishment of the office of a powerful prime minister. Mr Joho vowed to focus on development and “not engage in an exchange of words with anyone”, adding it is not his kind of politics. “We have a simple agenda of inclusion, fighting marginalisaition, empowering Kenyans and transforming their lives. It is the people that will decide and vote,” he added. LOSE ALLIES The governor also hit out at those who questioned his recent trip. He said he will keep off the matter because yesterday was a Friday (a holy day among Muslims). “I am more focused on what I need to do. Let’s pray for God’s guidance. We will continue working for the people. I went for an overseas trip and people started talking. I am now back,” he said amid cheers from his hundreds of supporters. Mr Joho said to consolidate votes ahead of 2022, he said he will traverse the country. He attributed his political success to the love from the electorate and God. DREAMING “No one held my hand or helped me. Many leaders fought me, but you (the people) stood by me. What matters is the people. Some people don’t believe I won, they are still dreaming,” he said. He said in politics people lose allies and make new ones. “In the process, some suffer losses that they can’t even recall. In the 2013 and 2017 election there were people interfering with our affairs you would have thought they owned this town, but they were swept away,” said Mr Joho.  