The second phase of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR2A), which takes the line from Syokimau to Naivasha through the Nairobi National Park, is being railroaded through with indecent haste. The SGR project was negotiated on a government-to-government basis, which raises the unhealthy spectre of opaqueness and poor value for money. Competitive bidding, not single-sourcing, should have taken place. Even if this project is important and necessary to enhance the hub status of our economy, can one justify the amount spent or committed and the dearth of accountability? The government needs to be totally upfront about what collateral has been pledged and if, in any way, this involves the Port of Mombasa. No sooner have we completed the first phase than we start committing more money to electrify it. We are told that an additional Sh24 billion will be borrowed to convert from diesel to electric. Why now? Why not when it was being constructed? ELECTRIFICATION The overall cost of SGR1 (Miritini to Syokimau) is in the region of Sh327 billion ($3.2 billion) — excluding electrification, which will obviously rise to Sh355 billion ($3.5 billion). Kenya has been paying Sh1.6 billion in interest alone every six months since 2014 and will start repaying the principal any time at around Sh14 billion per annum. And how is SGR1 faring? It is struggling. Passengers have to get to Miritini or Syokimau; so, it is not a seamless trip to Nairobi or Mombasa. And even with good passenger numbers, it is ironical that its revenue is having a problem paying its day-to-day running costs and overheads. In terms of commercial viability, this is a bad sign as it has nothing to do with repaying the loans. The freight side is even more questionable. One has to get the cargo to Miritini or Syokimau and arrange its onward connections, all at extra cost. Even the recent reduction of rates does not compensate for its lack of seamlessness. STRONG ARM TACTIC The government has also resorted to the strong arm tactic of making the transport of cargo it controls, or has influence over, go by SGR. Surely, this makes the cost of transporting that cargo more costly? Does it not amount to an indirect subsidy? SGR2A is already running into strong headwinds. The plan for it to slice through the park is subject to increasing controversy and opposition. It has also been the subject of considerable research. Professor Rodney Van der Ree of the University of Melbourne, Australia, says the SGR design showed seven alignments that interacted with the park: Two on the perimeter and five through it. But “in contrast to best global practice in EIA (environmental impact assessment), no options that completely avoided the park were considered”. The EIA was inadequate to the extent of being an open and shut rushed sham. It failed the basic criteria of proper stakeholder consultation. It appears the result was pre-determined, which is tantamount to the process being a self-fulfilling exercise devoid of credibility. COMPENASATION Having sat through several sessions listening to an array of experts thoroughly trashing Nema’s EIA of the proposed Lamu Coal Power Plant, I would go as far as to say that this criticism is applicable. Was the park route picked because it was the cheapest? One of the constant issues that has arisen with the SGR is that of compensation. Was the decision made on the basis of economy and saving costs? Other questions include why the segmented approach to the construction and what the overall cost of the next phase will be as well as the funding and repayment modalities. The cost factor again is most pertinent because the route to Naivasha is a more complicated construction and will be costlier. And this is only the second of four stages. Mr Shaw is a public policy and economic analyst: robshaw298@gmail.com  