Richard Onyonka, the legislator for Kitutu Chache South, walked out of a baraza (public meeting) protesting the agenda of the forum. Mr Onyonka had attended the meeting on Thursday evening in Nyatieko where Kisii County plans to set up a waste management factory. Things did not turn out as planned as Mr Onyonka spoke out against the project before the meeting started. DEVELOPMENT “You cannot rush here, meet 50 people and say you are undertaking a public participation on a major development,” he told the county officials who were led by Lands executive Moses Onderi. He said residents of the area deserved ‘better projects’ than a waste factory. “Tell whoever sent you here that my people are not ready to have this thing here,” Mr Onyonka said before he jumped on to a boda boda and went away. He left his car and driver behind. CLAIMS In another twist of event, a man showed up during the event claiming that the land the county plans to build the factory is his and he is not aware of the project. “I one day came here and found people doing a survey of my land,” Richard Nyabando said. Mr Onderi disputed Mr Nyabando’s claims and said that he was not the owner of the land. “We have not been dealing with him, he is only a pretender,” Mr Onderi said. He said the rightful owner was a Mr Elijah Nyagami. OPPOSE Efforts by the county to establish a waste management hub appear to be faltering as a similar project faced opposition recently. Last year, Bonchari residents moved to the streets to protest the location of the dumping site at an abandoned quarry at Gesonso area. They said the site would pose health hazards to them and called on the administration to get land elsewhere. County Deputy Governor Joash Maangi on his part called on the County residents to be understanding on the need for the administration to find land to dispose waste. “We have to finally get a place to dispose waste, it is generated by us and for a healthy and clean country we need it,” he said. He said called on people stirring protests against the county on the issue to desist. “Whenever we find a site, someone stirs residents against us. This does not auger well for development,’ he said.  