Kenya has experienced remarkable growth of e-commerce platform to the extent of becoming an essential part of economic activities. Increase in digital literacy and unprecedented new demand have occurred at the same time as technology and infrastructure development breakthrough. International logistic companies like G4S and DHL, which has a significant local presence are now facilitating e-commerce between Kenya and various countries. These companies are doing this by offering inspection services for all online merchandise before their customers make payments. Besides, they provide real-time tracking allowing buyers to track the movement of their parcel from dispatch point to the delivery office. This builds trust and confidence between the online buyer and seller regardless of the distance between them. INTERNETThe number of internet users in Kenya is rising at a promising rate for the online marketplace businesses. As per the Communications Authority's statistics covering July-September 2017, an estimated 51.1 million Kenyans had access to the internet either through smartphones or personal computers. The increase in e-commerce prospects in Kenya has seen numerous platforms being launched over the years. Some of the common ones include Jumia, Africa Sokoni, Vitumob, Kili Mall and Masoko among other upcoming e-commerce businesses. The businesses have grown into a lucrative opportunity, but e-commerce businessmen must be ready to offer the best customer care services. CUSTOMER CARE Customers in e-commerce platforms can be helped with the process of ordering, testing products, handling customer complaints, links for usage and experiential centres. As internet and computer technology are positively used to facilitate online business, cybercriminals are also advancing their technology and are targeting transactions. This poses challenges making some people are sceptical about online transactions. Online fraud is real. Competition is also a challenge that may see some businesses closing shops. Despite the growing market, the businesses must offer quality products both at their websites and what they deliver. Some companies display quality products but deliver a completely different product to the customer. USER-FRIENDLYCustomers expect the ordering process will be simple, reliable and user-friendly. Besides, customers are interested in having an easy way of accessing other related products, comparing products and even having links where they can save the products for future use. Thus, creating links for usage allows customers to explore other products and also allows the customers to purchase the product easily. In achieving this, creating product categories would assist customers to get the product they are looking for within the shortest time possible. Further, to increase the customer trust, avenues for products testing are essential. COMPLAINTS Customers need to know they are buying a good product and businesses can do this by giving considerable days before returning the products. E-commerce companies may also win the trust and confidence of the clients by ensuring the delivery is efficient and effective. In fact, Kenyans could spend more money on the platforms if what they purchase is delivered to the destinations of their choice within the specified time. Nevertheless, one of the major problems associated with the online purchasing is how complaints are handled. The way customer complaints are handled determines their future purchasing behaviour. As such, it is essential for online businesses to establish feedback and contact avenues to handle customer complaints. On time delivery, quality products, and excellent customer care including aftersales services are key to the success of online business in Kenya. The writer is a Doctorate Student in USIU with interest in Strategic Management  