The controversial 2018 County Ward Development Equalisation Bill could find its way into the agenda of the devolution conference that started in Kakamega yesterday. The bill, currently in the Senate, proposes the creation of Sh21.8 billion fund. At the beginning of the conference, MCAs fought to ensure that delegates are immersed in the issue and that it remains top on the agenda. Signs the bill will dominate discussions were on display as early as Sunday during a football match between the MCAs and the Senate at Bukhungu stadium. The MCAs had won the match, but in the heat of celebrations, started chanting Murang’a senator Irungu Kang’ata’s name. REVENUE Mr Kang’ata is the sponsor of the bill which seeks to create an equivalent of the Constituency Development Fund at the ward level. The bill seeks to establish a fund through which eight per cent of the equitable shareable revenue of every county will be allocated to respective wards for development. But during the public hearing on the bill last week, both the Treasury and the office of the Controller of Budget opposed it on the basis that it took the fiscal powers of county executive committee members. They two institutions argued that if enacted, the bill will entrench inequality and marginalisation of some communities in the counties. While the main theme of this conference revolves around the government’s Big Four agenda, there are signs the bill will take centre stage. But in sentiments that could set the tone for the next three days, Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen appeared to go against the position adopted by the two institutions and assured the MCAs the Senate will endorse the bill. CHANTS “Minority leader James Orengo and I have agreed that we shall endorse the bill,” said Mr Murkomen amid cheers and chants from MCAs. “Even if we don’t pass it the way it is, I want to give all MCAs a public undertaking that we shall support the bill.” Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala, who had set the stage for the issue, had in his remarks, decried the low absorption rate of the development budget in the counties, arguing that the solution lies in the establishment of the fund. He said most MCAs campaign on the promise of development which is frustrated by governors for political reasons. But Uasin Gishu governor Jackson Mandago said: “You can pass the proposed law (ward fund), but you will also have to amend the Public Finance Management Act. If you do that, we have no problem giving out the money.” DEVELOPMENT “The letter and spirit of devolution has come off age,” Mr Malala stated, with cheers from the MCAs. “But there is one anomaly: the low absorption rates of development budget. This is the elephant in the room.” Mr Malala, a former MCA, said as the link to grass root communities, MCAs are the engines of development, urging both the state and county governments to consider facilitating the ward reps as one of the ways of ensuring enhanced service delivery. He said most MCAs campaign on the promise of developments which are frustrated by governors, for political reasons. “Over Sh1.5 trillion has been disbursed to the counties in the last five years. What is the purpose of allocating all these funds for devolution but the beneficiaries can’t spend them?” he asked, earning ululation from the MCAs. 70 PER CENT “There are instances where up to 70 per cent of development budget is not absorbed by some counties. The only answer to this problem is to ensure that the Ward development fund is actualised. It will help in absorption rates of devolved funds.” Senate Minority leader James Orengo supported the idea of increasing allocations due to counties up to 40 per cent of the ordinary revenues generated at the national level, saying the clamour for additional funds to the devolved units is not populist. “In the last five years blame for poor delivery of services has shifted to the governors. Whether it is a broken road, a collapsed wall of a classroom, or lack of drugs in hospital. There is a case for increased allocations to the counties,” he said.   The bill aims at ensuring equity in distribution of resources.