More than 150 referees, who will officiate in this year’s Brookside Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association Term One Games, started a two-day coordination clinic to boost competency on Sunday. Over 1,700 students will be taking part in this year’s event in Embu, the highest number ever witnessed in a secondary school national sporting event after the scraping of the system from three national games to two. Under the new system, athletics and handball that used to feature in the Term Two “A”, have been introduced in term one. The referees drawn from the eight regions will be trained to handle the matches and to look out for emerging issues. Kenya Secondary School Sports Association secretary general David Ngugi said they would be seeking to build the capacity of the referees to officiate matches in a fair and professional manner. He said each region had presented two officials for basketball, hockey, 15s rugby and handball. Speaking during the start of the exercise at Kangaru School in Embu county, Ngugi said they would be seeking to harmonise the refereeing to have a common way of officiating the matches when the national event starts on Tuesday. Athletics referees who will be trained next week, will be expected to strictly adhere to IAAF rules correctly. Ngugi said the referees will undergo physical fitness to cope with the high speed expected in games involving under 19s. “They will be revising all the laws of the games to refresh their minds. We will be telling them to be strong and not to engage with spectators. The referees will be asked to remain nonpartisan and make the correct calls,” he said. As a motivation, he said the best referees would be rewarded with a chance to officiate in the East Africa Games to be held in Kigali, Rwanda. Association chairman, Peter Orero, who is a former football, netball and basketball referee, called on the whistle blowers to exercise high level of competency, patriotism, diligence and respect to the teams. “We know they have prepared well. Each team is a champion on its own rights,” he said.  