In two weeks’ time, governors will be holding their annual devolution conference, which celebrates the milestones achieved by the counties since 2013. The theme for the fifth conference, which runs from April 23-27 in Kakamega County, is "Sustainable, productive, effective and efficient governments for results delivery". The event comes at a time when the latest Ipsos Synovate survey shows that 84 per cent of Kenyans are supportive of devolution. In 2014, just months after the first county governments started working, only 69 per cent of the population supported it. But since then support has increased, with the highest previous level of support being 82 per cent in 2015. INDUSTRIALISEDThis year’s conference will be different, in that it has adopted a sector-based approach in four areas: health, agriculture, trade and manufacturing, Infrastructure and urban development. According to a conference concept note released by the Council of Governors, each sector will have breakout sessions with a guiding theme, and will address the relevant emerging policy and legislative issues. “It is now time for county governments to overcome the initial challenges; build on what was achieved in the first term with the goal of delivering real-time results to their constituents,” the CoG note said. “Counties have been regarded as the frontiers for economic and social development, and if well-managed, will transform Kenya into an industrialised, middle-income country providing a high quality of life to its citizens,” the note added. REPORTThe proceedings and presentations made at the conference will be synthesised and published as a report, and a final communication will be generated at the end of the conference. “The respective technical teams shall develop a sector-based programme to guide the discussions within the sector for the two days of deliberations. "The structure and content of the sectoral programme shall be approved at the main multi-stakeholder planning meeting and at the steering committee level,” the document said of the conference to be opened by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa, who has asked Kenyans to turn up for the conference, said governors should focus on service delivery. “To whom much is given, much is expected. Since the majority of Kenyans support devolution, they also have high expectations of it, and of its guardians. "From the national government to the county governments to development partners and the private sector,” Mr Wamalwa said. RELATIONSSenate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka noted that senators will be fully involved in the conference, unlike in previous years. He made the remarks as the Senate leadership expressed optimism of better working relations between the governors, senators and the National Assembly. Mr Lusaka, who was speaking in Nakuru during a two-day retreat for the Senate leadership, blamed the acrimony witnessed in the previous House on vested interests among some House members eyeing governorship posts and their respective county bosses. Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua asked his colleagues to answer audit queries as the Senate prepares to question 33 governors over the misappropriation of funds in their counties. Speaking in Nyeri during a two-day benchmarking tour, Mr Mutua said the concerns raised by Auditor-General Edward Ouko are “normal” and proof that county governments are working.   The conference, to be held in Kakamega County, will take place between April 23 and 27.