The post-handshake discussions in the media and other public places leave one wondering whether we are not putting the cart before the horse. On one hand, we are all agreed that last year’s general election left the country polarised. On the other, we are divided on how best to come out of the situation. The handshake did its bit — cooling down tempers. But it planted, and has germinated, political discontent. The deeper problem is the way we seem set to address the polarisation from the largely inconclusive 2017 presidential election. VIOLENCETypical of us Kenyans, not even the horrors of 2007/08 post-election violence would move us to sober up and address the risks embedded in our electoral and governance systems. Instead, we have peacefully quarrelled ourselves from the ‘scene of crime’ — whatever the root causes of the acrimonious and deadly elections — and melted into thin air. Why talk about national dialogue if we cannot face the fact that no crime can rival people dying because of an election? Months later, we have soldiered on, run several homecoming parties and, overall, conduct our everyday business as if the effects of the chaotic elections are insignificant. It is as if if we do not talk about the electoral missteps of last year the better — because then, we forget the past and hook our minds and souls to 2022 polls. Thankfully, there are conscious voices not letting us off last year’s mess. DIALOGUETalking about national dialogue suggests that we are aware of the dangers of not reflecting on our systems. The proponents of this position rightfully remind us to go back to the ‘scene of crime’ and dialogue on how not to repeat whatever mistakes there were. Dialogue, in fact, is a consequentialist approach within the broader concept of reconciliation. It leads to certain specific consequences — such as letting go the benefits of our disputed attachments. It means the goal being pursued surpasses the goals creating the differences. It assumes that there are aggrieved parties and that the belligerents agree to “talk with each other” (not at each other) and are ready to accept the outcome. It is about listening without prejudice in order to discern the best outcome for all. RECONCILIATIONIf the dialogue picks up, there are a few basics that must not be lost, whichever way the post-handshake dialogue unfolds. First, the grievances must be listed, painful or embarrassing as they might be. For instance, what caused the deaths? Secondly, responsibility must be assigned. It’s about “who”, not “what, why”. Of course, finger pointing risks being sidestepped for “everybody has sinned” and, therefore, the need to “start afresh”. The bad news is going this way is completely missing the meaning of dialogue. Rwandans learnt the hard way that truth telling, in fact, heals. The Germans brought down the Berlin Wall to create one Germany. POLITICIANSThirdly, restorative justice is necessary for the magnitude of the polarisation we experienced and could experience if we do not embrace nation building and learn to say, “Sorry, the cow you are looking for is in my shed”. Get the cow to the owner or compensate justly for the wrongs. Isn’t this how we solve our own domestic problems? Fourthly, dialogue focuses primarily on healing broken relationships. The ethnic divisions within our borders are not healthy. Let the national dialogue, therefore, not turn out to be a mere development agenda (Various government ministries will deal with that, anyway). For this reason, politicians responsible for the chaotic campaigns do not qualify to manage a healing process. Their presence, active participation and goodwill is, indeed, pivotal to healing and reconstruction of our electoral and governance systems but let religious leaders steer the dialogue. Dr Mokua is the executive director, Jesuit Hakimani Centre. hakimanidirector@gmail.com  