Harambee Starlets advanced to the second and final round of the 2018 Africa Women’s Cup of Nations qualifiers after holding hosts Uganda's Crested Cranes to a goalless draw in their first round return leg fixture at the StarTimes Stadium, Kampala on Sunday. The result saw David Ouma’s charges win 1-0 on aggregate after their success in Nairobi last Wednesday. They are now slated to meet Equatorial Guinea in the final round where a win in the two-legged affair will see them book a second appearance to the continental showpiece slated for November 17 to December 1 in Ghana. Kenya will host the first leg on June 2 with the reverse tie a week later. “We came here mentally and physically strong aiming for a win because we knew it wasn’t going to be easy and we are happy that we’ve qualified to the next round with this result," Starlets captain Wendy Achieng’ said after the match. Coach David Ouma added, “Uganda were well organized in defence and were dangerous in counter attack situations but I want to congratulate my girls for withstanding the pressure,” he said. Uganda captain Hasifa Nasuna was left frustrated following the elimination. “We wanted to score more than three goals to qualify but unfortunately we didn’t utilize our chances now we can’t move to the next round, it’s disheartening to all of us,” Nasuna said. Ouma lined up a strong team led by first leg hero Lilian Adera in defence alongside Elizabeth Ambogo, Dorcas Sikobe and Captain Wendy Achieng’. Poline Atieno retained her place in between the sticks while Mwanahalima Adam partnered Neddy Atieno and Mercy Achieng’ upfront. Corazone Aquino, who started from the bench in the first leg, combined Sheryl Angachi in the midfield with the Starlets keeping vigil the entire 90 minutes. Cranes coach Faridah Bulega on her side made one change from the team that lost 1-0 on Wednesday. Striker Juliet Nalukenge replaced Christine Nambirigge with four standing at the back in Yudaha Nakayenze, Shadia Nankya, Viola Namuddu and Grace Aluka. Uganda needed a 2-0 goal win to edge out Kenya who last appeared at the AWCON finals in 2016 in Cameroon.  