The clamour instigated by the wayward prosecution of Miguna Miguna before the courts indicated a perverse convergence of interests by the NRM legal cadres and elements of the Judiciary. This convergence motivated the staging of what was intended to be an epic showdown with the Executive, or the State. It explains the hell-for-leather rush to produce one order after another in such bewildering succession and the procedural and legal shortcuts that entailed. Proceedings against the government cannot, and should not, be initiated and concluded in two quick ex parte hearings. The government’s accountability radiates beyond a single incident and encounter and involves myriad officers located in diverse and far-flung parts of its system. CONTEMPT Similarly, contempt proceedings cannot be prosecuted in the deplorably summary fashion Kenya witnessed on live television. Indeed, the definition of contempt is fairly problematic when applied to Dr Miguna. Finally, the idea of justice — both procedural and substantive — to be expected from judicial institutions was severely undermined in the proceedings. The legal framework governing contempt of court must be seen in the larger context of the essence of judicial authority, which is the administration of justice and the rule of law. The right to fair hearing is part of the fundamental rights the Constitution ring-fences from qualification, reduction, alteration or derogation under Article 25(c). No statute, precedent, contingency or perceived imperative may be invoked to restrict or deny a party’s right to be heard before a court of law. CONSTITUTIONAL DISPENSATION Indeed, the authority of the courts and the rule of law depend very much on the Judiciary’s scrupulous adherence to our constitutional dispensation. Article 50 (1) makes fair public hearing mandatory. Ex parte proceedings explicitly qualify the right to be heard to the extent that decisions are taken based on the claims of one party but enforceable against absent or unheard parties. This prejudicial state of affairs is antithetical to the very idea of justice. This is the overarching understanding that must inform any contestation about the implications and applications of the contempt of court, government proceedings, civil procedure and other frameworks: The right to a hearing cannot be qualified under any circumstance. PREJUDICED Ex parte court proceedings that profile the prejudiced parties as lords of impunity brazenly depart the canonical as well as intuitive parameters of fairness. They also introduce the depraved thesis that the end justifies the means: Since Matiang’i, or Kihalangwa, or Boinett, is alleged to be in contempt, their right to be heard may be arbitrarily extinguished. When court orders are given arbitrarily, justice stops being a public good and becomes a private rent. In this state, the Judiciary can no longer claim to serve the public interest nor pretend to be the custodian of the rule of law. CORRUPT CARTELS It becomes the property of corrupt cartels, captive to vested interests and liable to inflict devastating damage to its own credibility, citizen’s rights, good governance and the rule of law. Advocates are using affidavits to further claims and advance arguments. Replying affidavits and further affidavits are disguised pleadings that are not borne in fact. At the ex parte level, judges rely on these mutated quasi-pleadings, quasi-evidence to steal a march on parties who become prejudiced in the quest to produce the correct factual position. When fact is contestable, the rule of law is in trouble. Mr Ng’eno is an advocate of the High Court of Kenya. ericngeno@gmail.com  