Most parts of the country will continue receiving moderate rainfall for the next five days, according to the Kenya Meteorological Department. The North-Eastern region will, however, receive enhanced rains, while Central, Coast and South East will only get light to moderate rainfall. NO FLOODS “We are basically expecting wet conditions and nothing significant apart from in the north-eastern where we are expecting significant rainfall between Wednesday and Thursday while the rest of the country will just have light to moderate rainfall and no flooding,” said the department’s director Peter Ambenje. He said the peak of the rains will be felt this month since the long rains season covers March, April and May and told the public to prepare for cloudy mornings which will break into light rains followed by sunny intervals and then showers in the evening. “Over most parts of the country, April will be the peak apart from the Coast where May will be the wettest.  The forecast for April shows that we might see some good rainfall during the month,” said Mr Ambenje. SEVEN-DAY FORECAST According to the latest seven-day forecast covering April 3 up to April 9, North-Eastern counties of Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo will experience morning rains. In the afternoon and evenings, showers are expected over a few places for the remainder of the week with temperatures ranging between 17 and 36 degrees celsius. Central highlands, including Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang’a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, and Tharaka Nithi, will have cloudy mornings with the possibility of rains over a few places, giving way to sunny intervals. There will be showers on most afternoons and evenings. “The possibility of intense rainfall in Nairobi within the seven days is minimal so there is no possibility of flooding,” he said. Most counties in Nyanza, Western and the Rift Valley will have sunny intervals in the mornings, giving way to showers and thunderstorms in the afternoons and evenings. Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu will have morning rains and thunderstorms in the evenings. Kitui, Makueni, Machakos and Taita-Taveta will have sunny intervals for the entire  forecast period and a possibility of afternoon and evening showers. Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale counties will have sunny intervals with a possibility of late morning showers.  