Solicitor General Kennedy Ogeto is entangled in the boardroom row at Murang’a-based Kiru Tea Factory Company that saw the ouster of Kenya Tea Development Agency (KTDA) company secretary from the firm. KTDA has fired a letter to Mr Ogeto, who was sworn in as Solicitor General in March 20, to protest the approval of Kennedy Omanga — KTDA company secretary — ouster from Kiru Tea by the Registrar of Companies who also sits in the office of the Attorney-General. READ: Murang’a factory kicks out Sasini Tea boss from board ALSO READ: Sasini MD fights ouster in Murang’a tea factory board The Registrar of Companies sided with the shareholders in the removal of Mr Omanga, arguing his stay in the Muranga based factory was illegal and in breach on an earlier Court of Appeal ruling. The registrar also supported the appointment of Bernard Kiragu as the company secretary of Kiru Tea Factory amid protests from KTDA. KTDA wants Mr Ogeto to quash directives issued by Registrar of Companies on March 13, prompting the Solicitor General to summon a meeting on Monday afternoon over the board fights at Kiru Tea. READ: AG's office approves ouster of Sasini boss, KTDA man from tea factory Proper guidance Kiru Tea sacked Mr Omanga because he failed to offer proper guidance to the factory on behalf of the KTDA. The Registrar of Companies supported his removal on the strength of Court of Appeal ruling that ordered Kiru Tea not to conduct fresh board elections. Mr Omanga is said to have defied the ruling and triggered an Annual General Meeting that reconstituted the board and elected Stephen Githiga as chairman of Kiru Tea. “According to the interim order by the Court of Appeal, we find that Kennedy Omanga from the KTDA Management Services is restrained from acting as the company secretary,” said the Registrar. “We find that Bernard Kiragu is the company secretary on record for purposes of foiling documents for Kiru TFC at the companies registry.” Erroneous orders KTDA reckons that the interpretation of the Court of Appeal orders were erroneous, and that the registrar has no powers direct the affairs of Kiru Tea. Kiru Tea was also unhappy with Mr Omanga’s decision to oppose the board decision to remove Stephen Githiga, the Group MD of Sasini, as director of Kiru Tea Factory for conflict of interest. Kiru shareholders said Mr Githiga’s position in the factory become invalid after he was hired by Sasini as managing director last year.  