Calls for a Luhya political party being spearheaded by ousted Senate Minority Leader Moses Wetangula and Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi continues to face resistance from politicians in the larger Western region. Devolution Cabinet Secretary, Eugene Wamalwa, on Sunday dismissed the move by the two Nasa co-principals agitating for a Mulembe party, seen by some as a bid to break away from the opposition coalition following Raila Odinga’s handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta. SHELVE IDEA Speaking at Bumula ‘B’ Sub-parish Catholic Church in Butula Constituency during a funds drive, Mr Wamalwa dismissed the move and asked the two leaders to stop "ill-advised" idea. Ford Kenya leader Mr Wetangula and his ANC counterpart Mudavadi unveiled the plans for a Mulembe party two weeks ago. “Whereas we support people uniting together, the idea of forming the Mulembe party is ill-advised. The time for tribal formation is over. What we want now is politics of unity. "If we decide to form a Luhya political party here in Western where will you place Governor Ojaamong and his Iteso community, what of the Sabaot in Trans-Nzoia? Let us join hands with other Kenyans in ensuring that the county moves in one direction," said the CS. TRUCE Mr Wamalwa, who was accompanied by Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong, his deputy Moses Mulomi and area legislator Joseph Oyula asked the two leaders to work closely with the government and shelve their ambitions aiming at only benefiting a few. “Luhya community loves peaceful co-existence. We ask the two to join us in supporting the President and Raila. As Mulembe community we should lead from front in agitating for peace.” He lauded the move by Mr Odinga and Kenyatta who buried their differences for the sake of the country. “We want peace in our country so that we can effectively serve our people well. Last year’s General Election divided the country, we are past that period and all we want is development across board.” Mr Ojaamong affirmed his support for Raila-Kenyatta truce vowing to work with the government. He added that his government is committed to fulfil his development agenda. “The differences between Kenyatta and Odinga had stagnated development. We are happy as governors that we can embark on pushing through our development agenda as we promised our people. I will work with you (Wamalwa) and our two leaders.” Mr Oyula said he will ensure only key projects are given priority. The Sunday event raised Sh 1.2m with Mr Wamalwa donating Sh200,000.   At the local level, Mudavadi and Wetangula are likely to enjoy a bountiful harvest come 2022.