Visiting Western Stima came from a goal down to beat 10-man Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) 2-1 in a top-of-the-table National Super League (NSL) clash at a rain-soaked Camp Toyoyo grounds on Saturday. Gathu Zachariah broke the deadlock for KCB on 51 minutes but goalkeeper Samuel Odhiambo equalised from the spot in the 72nd minute after Dennis Gicheru was penalised for handling the ball in the box while attempting to clear Dan Otie’s cross. The incident saw Gicheru sent off for a second bookable offence. Fredrick Nyarombo, who replaced Maurice Dukully with 15 minutes to go, smashed home the winner two minutes to time. The Powermen extended their lead at the top to 27 points, four ahead of KCB who remain second with a game in hand. In other matches, Modern Coast Rangers held Isibania to a 1-1 draw in Awendo with a similar result recorded at Afraha stadium between Nairobi Stima and St. Joseph’s Youth. “I am happy with the boys' display despite conceding a lousy goal but they showed the impetus to win,” Stima coach Richard Makumbi told Nation Sport after the game. “Always the best team wins however weak they might be. We let in a cheap goal due to a defensive mistake that we shall rectify that. What counts is that we picked ourselves up to fight back,” he added. Stima defenders were to blame for not clearing their lines leading to KCB’s opener. Stima custodian Odhiambo had parried Chris Onyango’s shot and a rebound hit the crossbar only for the former Thika United and Wazito man Gathu to capitalise and score. Odhiambo’s outstanding saves in the game kept the visitors awake and led the fight back with a well converted penalty, sending his counterpart Juma Mbongo the wrong way. KCB duo Dennis Orenge and Kennedy Owino missed clear scoring chances in the first half while Stima’s top scorer John Mwita failed to send the ball into an empty net at the half hour mark. Results: Saturday City Stars 0-0 Nakuru AllStars St. Joseph’s Youth 1-1 Nairobi Stima Isibania 1-1 Modern Coast Rangers KCB 1-2 Western Stima FIXTURES Sunday Kenya Police v Administration Police (Karuturi grounds, 1pm) Ushuru v Kisumu AllStars (Camp Toyoyo grounds, 12pm) Kibera Black Stars v Talanta (Hope Centre, 3pm) Coast Stima v Golden Field Evangelism (Mbaraki grounds, 3pm)  