The latest corruption survey report released last week did not reveal anything significantly new; it only reinforced the conventional knowledge. It restated the common narrative with the usual suspects — the police, among others — topping the list, which is a sad testimony about the health of our nation. Corruption has emerged as the single-most dangerous disease to have afflicted this nation. It has extended its tentacles to all spheres of our national life — from government to private and religious institutions. Paradoxically, it is the single common item used in every political campaign, with all sorts of promises of routing it. LEADERS Religious leaders, government and private sector executives similarly make strong commitments to eradicate it. But all these have not changed anything. For the umpteenth time, the National Police Service has been ranked the most corrupt government agency. It is followed by other service sectors such as Health, Devolution, Education, Transport and Lands. Sadly, every time the report is released, officers of the various agencies only stomp the podium with promises of mounting campaigns to rid them of the sleaze. DEVOLUTION In the mix are the counties, which have emerged as the new hubs for graft. Unfortunately, counties, which were designed to provide avenues for dispersal of resources, have turned into dens of looters. And Murang’a has taken the dubious distinction of being the most corrupt. The whole essence of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission is to lead national cleansing by instituting programmes — institutional reforms, public education and sanctions — to curtail graft. But then, the depth and extent of the vice increases by the year. TENDERS In fact, some of the figures cited in the report look sanitised because, in real sense, contractors and service providers pay huge sums of money to win contracts. Time has come to go beyond the surveys. They have become empty rituals because they neither deter corruption nor lead to sanctions against the culprits. The national and county leaders must end corruption and the EACC should seize the culprits and prosecute them. We need action, not mere reports and statistics.  