On March 28, 2018, the National Cohesion and Integration Commission launched a book tilted The Impact of Organised Gangs on Social Cohesion in Kenya. The book is based on research study undertaken between November, 2016 and June, 2017. The publication is not only timely but also useful as the nation reels from an extended political campaigns and electioneering window. The findings in the book are not unusual but there exists some interesting tit bits that should jolt the nation into some form of thinking and strategic action. ETHNIC GROUPINGS The study found the proliferation of organised gangs was on the rise and that they are 90 per cent organised, financed and deployed by politicians. This particular finding has a bearing on the type of leadership we obtained after the elections and Kenyans need to ask themselves — Are we better than those we elected?. Another observation points towards some form of competition by ethnic groups and their leadership to not only form their own gangs but also to organise, finance and deploy them to counter opposing ethnic groups or use them to reign terror on opponents from a different ethnic group or political camp. The organised gangs are spread across the country with the study covering fifteen counties of: Nairobi, Kisumu, Nakuru, Mombasa, Kwale, Bungoma, Kakamega, Siaya, Kiambu, Murang’a, Nyamira, Narok, Kisii, Bomet and Nyeri. 12-YEARS-OLD The research found that some gangs had children below 11 years, nearly 22 per cent of the gangs had children between 12 and 17 years, 33 per cent of the gangs had a membership of ages 18-35 years, 26 per cent of the gangs had a membership of ages 36-50 years while 13 per cent had a membership of 51 years and above (who are mostly founders and stategists). In consolidating the numbers, one will not fail to notice that nearly 45 per cent of the organised gang membership has a direct bearing and or relationship with a school or institution of learning. We have our children and the next generation being socialised and organised into crime by our political leadership that is hell bent on having an electorate that cannot question it or challenge it. The study recommends a raft of measures and actions. Of all the recommendations for action that need urgent and purposeful investment from a strategic point is the recommendation to institute mechanisms for monitoring and preventing potential participation of school going children in organised gangs. PROPOSED ACTION For this to happen successfully; teachers need to be at the centre of the proposed action. Teachers need to undergo specific mentorship and support to professionally enhance their capacity for purposes of preventing, identifying, isolating and  supporting learners who maybe on the verge of joining organised gangs or those who have already joined. The modern teacher is fraught with many challenges and managing learners on a day-to-day basis in a society that is forever changing and throwing new challenges their way is one of the most complex undertakings in a school today. The Ministry of Education needs to keep investing and re-investing in the professional development of teachers. RIGHT WRONGS The age profile of the organised gang membership is an early warning to along us. From the foregoing, it is either our children are in the gangs, our teachers or our parents. We need to think, act and invest strategically to stall the tide. The education reform process is an avenue for sectors to collaborate and join hands. Let us wake - up and Stand - up for our children. Time is now. Tomorrow will be too late to right the wrongs of today. The writer is an Education and Public Policy Expert. wesayamaina@gmail.com  