The High Court has stopped Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga from filling the position of Youth and Gender executive committee member. Justice Abigail Mshila also stopped the governor from swearing in, or considering another person other than Ms Sheila Githaiga, who had been appointed earlier and vetted for the docket. Ms Githaiga sued Mr Kahiga and the county secretary for not allowing her to take oath of office despite getting the county assembly’s approval. The judge directed Ms Githaiga to file a motion within 21 days and serve the same to Mr Kahiga and county secretary, who are named as first and second respondents. ADVERTISED POSITION “The applicant has been granted leave to bring an application for orders of prohibition directed at respondents to stop, refrain from selecting, nominating, recruiting or appointing any other person other than the applicant,” the orders stated. Ms Githaiga, who moved to court after the county government advertised for the position, indicated that she was aware the governor was in the process of nominating a chief officer to serve in the docket. “I'm apprehensive the respondents will present to the assembly new nominee to the position of CEC Gender, Sports and Social Services, thus permanently rocking me out despite my proper and valid appointment,” the applicant explained in her application. SWEAR-IN She said that Mr Kahiga's refusal to swear her in was an abdication of public duty, considering that other executive committee members were sworn in and were already discharging their duties. “Numerous visits to the governor’s office have not yielded anything. I'm yet to receive any explanation on why I have not been sworn in,” Ms Githaiga noted. She said that despite being vetted and approved by the county assembly committee on appointments, she was neither sworn in nor given an appointment letter by the late governor Wahome Gakuru. PUBLIC OUTCRY She told the court that upon making an enquiry, she was informed that there was a public outcry by the youth regarding the allocation of a youth portfolio to a person not in the youth age bracket. “I'm aware the youth portfolio has been transferred to the Public Administration docket and the same argument cannot be used as an excuse for my exclusion from the job,” Ms Githaiga said. The case will be mentioned on May 9, 2018.  