Visitors Kisumu All Stars rallied from a goal down to draw 1-1 with Ushuru in a National Super League match played at Camp Toyoyo grounds on Sunday. Former Gor Mahia and Bandari forward Enoch Agwanda shot Ushuru ahead in the 59th minute but substitute Dennis Ochieng’ equalised for the visitors late on in the match. The draw helped All Stars leapfrog Bidco United to fifth spot on 19 points albeit temporarily, as Bidco face Green Commandoes in their round 12 match on Monday in Kakamega. Ushuru increased their points tally to 16. “It was an evenly contested match but I must congratulate my boys for the fighting spirit exhibited after conceding. This is the kind of spirit we need heading into our next match against KCB next weekend,” All Stars coach Nick Aketch told Nation Sport after the match. Ken Kenyatta, the Ushuru coach was satisfied with the draw and praised his striker Agwanda for showing improvement. “I have helped him rediscover his form and now he is contributing immensely in our matches, however I am disappointed with the draw but we continue to rectify mistakes to bag maximum points in upcoming matches,” he said. Agwanda converted a sumptuous free kick won by Baron Oketch who had been fouled by Dan Onyango at the edge of the box. His shot penetrated a four-man wall troubling AllStars goalkeeper Robert Ouma with the ball slipping through his hands into the back of the net. A resurgent All Stars fought on and coach Nick Aketch added more punch with the introduction of Samuel Ian and Billy Agai. Bobby Kwaka and Dan Onyango manned the backline, while Samuel Ogola, Dennis Ochieng’ and Victor Okongo operated on the left and right full back positions respectively. Former Palos striker Calvince Omanga and Alex Waiswa led the attacking line. Kenyatta had Kennedy Obwanda in between the sticks with Nelson Marasowe and Fredrick Kentille providing the cover at the back as Agwanda and Oketch led the frontline. Both Agwanda and Billy Oporia had chances to break the deadlock in the first half but blasted wide from close range. Gerishom Arabe’s dangerous cross in the 36th minute flew inches wide with the first stanza ending in a 0-0 stalemate. An even affair in the second half saw both sides create chances but luckily converted one each to settle for a draw. Elsewhere, Eldoret based Golden Field Evangelism (GFE) failed to turn up at Mbaraki Sports for their match against Coast Stima allowing the latter to bag three points without kicking a ball. SUNDAY'S NSL RESULTS Kenya Police 1-1 Administration Police Kibera Black Stars 0-0 FC Talanta Ushuru 1-1 Kisumu AllStars Coast Stima 2-0 GFE (Walkover) Monday Green Commandoes v Bidco United (Bukhungu Stadium 3pm)   The result sees the Brewers remain in 13th place with 10 points.