I recently got internship in a reputable organisation. Since I am studying accounting, I was posted to the finance department, which is overseen by an expatriate, a European man who has no respect for black employees. Every morning, he asks me to get him a cup of coffee, which I reluctantly do because I came here to learn, not to serve coffee. I know I should stand up to him but I am afraid of losing this internship. How do I handle this?  Finding an internship opportunity with a reputable organisation in a department related to your academic field of study is a suitable platform from which to launch your career. Besides gaining work experience and appreciating the dynamics of the work environment, interns are expected to learn how to meaningfully interact with colleagues in the course of work, an aspect that often proves as instrumental in careers as technical proficiency. The reason for considering your head of department disrespectful is unclear from your question. It would be unfortunate if he is indeed disrespectful as this is unacceptable conduct regardless of the culprit’s background, in which case you should consult your human resources function. Asking for a cup of coffee every morning alone may not represent disrespect. It could be that your head of department is observing you and assessing your attitude as it is unlikely that a reputable organisation can assign you the task of serving coffee to the exclusion of other work experiences. Although the type of tasks that you are assigned as an intern do matter, it is worth noting that the value you will draw from your internship is largely dependent on your hunger for growth. Consider the daily interactions with your head of department as opportunities to find out about his career journey to the top. You might also want to ask him about his own internship experiences. While serving coffee is indeed not an accounting competency, it should not surprise you that the early part of most careers includes seemingly menial chores that may be unrelated to one’s academic credentials. Thankfully, internships are short-lived. Would you rather stand up to your head of department concerning your grievance or smell the coffee and stand up to be counted among those who realise that despising the ignominy of humble beginnings is shunning tomorrow’s opportunities?   Even when intentions are noble, feedback needs to be shared tactfully to achieve its purpose.