The Kenya Medical Association (KMA) has threatened to discontinue offering its support in enrolling more Kenyans into the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) should the National Assembly pass a proposed law seeking to change the composition of the health insurer’s board. The association said that despite the changes proposed, the Bill has not been published or made available to stakeholders. KMA’s Chief Executive Officer Jacqueline Kitulu said that removing representation of KMA, trade unions and the civil society will significantly weaken NHIF board’s oversight mandate. “It is mischievous to contemplate such serious amendments to the Act through a miscellaneous amendment instead of bringing a substantive amendment Bill to the house with sufficient public participation as required by the Constitution,” Dr Kitulu said. REMOVE UNIONS Fresh proposals have been tabled to review the NHIF law and change the composition of its board by ousting the Central Organisation of Trade Unions (Cotu), teachers unions and the Federation of Kenya Employees (FKE) from the board. The proposal is contained in the Statute Law (Miscellaneous) Amendment Bill, 2018 sponsored by National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale. The ouster will be prompted by the review of the NHIF Act which will see the removal of five directors who represent FKE, the teachers’ union, Cotu, KMA and faith-based organisations. The five, the  Amendment Bill  indicates, will be replaced by nominees by the Health Cabinet secretary, giving the government a firm grip of the fund that collects more than Sh30 billion from workers annually. COUNCIL OF GOVERNORS If passed, it will also give the Council of Governors a seat in the NHIF board, something that the governors had requested. This will increase the NHIF board to 11 seats including the chair appointed by the President and three principal secretaries of Treasury, Health and Labour. Others are six people appointed by the Health Cabinet secretary including one from the public sector. The amendments seek to increase the financial base of NHIF and its scope of reimbursements. “We feel that the net effect of these changes is to increase the funds available to the Fund while removing safeguards against their misuse,” she added. As a result, KMA threatened that should the amendments be passed into law, it will no longer be possible for its members and other health professionals to continue supporting massive enrolment into the fund as it runs the risk of being completely looted with little benefit to the public. “For the avoidance of doubt, the Kenya Medical Association will mobilise all medical and dental practitioners, and all allied health workers to campaign against enrolment into the NHIF should the amendments be passed into law,” said Prof Lukoye Atwoli, the vice president of KMA. Voting power in the NHIF board is shared equally between the government and the private sector, but this will shift to the State if Parliament approves the amendments.  