A few weeks after Sospeter was born, Apostle Overseer Elkana, the Spiritual Superintendent of THOAG (The Holiest of All Ghosts) Tabernacle Assembly, came over to see the boy, and welcome him to the world with prayers. What I had thought would be a few minutes prayer session turned out to be an elaborate ceremony of prayers, both for son and the parents. As usual, the Apostle did not leave my home until I had parted with something small. I felt pain in the pocket, but I was happy since the matter was now off my chest, as I now knew that my son would grow up with full blessings from God, my transgressions — many of them exaggerated by Fiolina — notwithstanding. You see, the Apostle had been on my case from the day Sospeter was born, saying that he needed to be prayed for before he turned eight days old. “Jesus was circumcised within eight days,” I remember him saying. So your son should not go beyond eight days before we bless him. The blessing took place on the 15th day, and I was sure I would have some rest. I was wrong. A week after this, Apostle Elkana was back. “It is good we welcomed the boy with prayers,” he said when he come to see me. “We now need to dedicate and baptise him; God accepted him in the world, and the boy now needs to accept God.” “My son is too young to be baptised,” I reasoned out. “Does he even know what is happening? Will he know what he is committing to?” I asked. “I have not said he should get saved,” Said Elkana. “This is just baptism. And it is good to do it when the boy is still pure, when he hasn’t committed any sin.” I told him that I would think about it. He was back a week later, quoting scripture that someone should be baptised on their 40th day. “Do you know that Jesus fasted for 40 days?” He asked me. “Your son must be dedicated and baptised on the 40th day.” I ignored him. But soon he won Fiolina over to his side, and it became a daily reminder, just like she treated me before we wed. “Mtoto amepita kubatizwa,” is all I was told anytime I was on the wrong. You see Fiolina, like all women, has this habit of reminding me the things that I haven’t done, whenever I am in the wrong. That time, I had not left money at home for shopping. “This is our only son Dre and we must do everything for him to grow in God’s way,” she said. “Let’s not allow him to be spoilt like Branton who was not baptised.” To bring peace in my home, I accepted that we proceed and we slated it for Easter Sunday. A few days before the day, Clementina, Elkana’s wife, came to see us to prepare her for the day. Although she clearly showed how it would be an elaborate ceremony to be done at River Lukose, she focused more on the money and gifts that we needed to give them for the job. I have dealt with Apostle Elkana for a long time, so I never say no to whatever he asks for, but I never give him in full either. REJECTED THE NAME Interestingly, THOAG rejected the name Sospeter saying it was not biblical, but I stood my ground. When it looked like the whole thing may collapse due to the name, they accepted, and it was all systems go for the baptism. They arrived in our home early Sunday morning: Apostle Elkana, his wife, Clementina, and two other people: a man and his wife whom they introduced to us as the new Christian parents of Sospeter. We had prepared a heavy breakfast — tea, cocoa, mandazi, scones, groundnuts and other things. I remember Elkana taking about four cups, after which we left for the ceremony. We left in a line, with Apostle and his wife in front, followed by Fiolina and I, and then Sospeter’s new Christian parents, carrying Sospeter. Behind them was the church choir led by Anindo and other church members, who clearly were only interested in food. We passed by church for some prayers and then proceeded to River Lukose — at a special location where they usually do their baptism. It had rained heavily the day before and the river was slightly swollen. The location where they usually carry out baptism was not very visible. This, however, did not deter Elkana and he waded into the water towards the baptism point. His wife, Anindo, and a few congregants remained, afraid of the water. “We have swum in this river since we were children,” he said as he walked in. “Tukifanya kazi ya Bwana hatuogopi hata maji.” Behind him was the man who had been introduced as Sospeter’s Christian father. The rest of us had remained behind. Once he reached where he confirmed to be the baptism place, he started the service. He was not very far away, and so we could hear him. The water level was above his waist, usually it never even reaches the knees. As usual, other villagers, like Nyayo and Alphayo passed by and stood watching. There were several other elements of the service, including the first and second reading. Shortly after, they prayed for the parents. They then went to baptism proper. Sospeter was being held by his spiritual father.  He and Sospeter were the only other souls other than Apostle Elkana, who were in water. After some long prayer, Elkana took the baby from his helper. He said some prayers and prepared to immerse the boy in water. I don’t know what happened, but he must have either slipped, or was tired, or was carried away, but what we saw was him dropping Sospeter in water as he also fell down in the moving water. Fiolina wailed loudly while I quickly started wading into the water but we thank God for Nyayo who was nearby. Nyayo ran to where the two men were and quickly picked Sospeter and brought him to us. He had swallowed a little water and we quickly made him spit it out. At the time, Elkana was making some uneasy noises. Nyayo rushed back to where Elkana was and raised him up. Together with Alphayo, they carried Elkana to dry ground. He had swallowed a lot of water, and first aid was administered to him to revive him. By that time, Clementina was wailing loudly, wondering who wanted to kill her husband, as Nyayo and Alphayo made him spit out all the water. When he came to, about 20 minutes later, he did not say anything. He meekly stood up and literally ran away, followed by his wife Clementina. No one even went back home to take the soda and sumptuous lunch we had been prepared. And just like that, the baptism ceremony aborted!  mwalimuandrew@gmail.com www.facebook.com/mwisho-walami   Before the January transfer, she had previously been transferred once.