The top Jubilee leadership has called for unity in Kirinyaga County following a Friday spat between Governor Anne Waiguru and Woman Representative Wangui Ngirichi. Deputy President William Ruto, who was visiting the county for the second time in three days on Sunday, urged Kirinyaga leaders to settle their differences and focus on development. He spoke at , Mwea, during a fundraiser. INCITEMs Waiguru was heckled by a group at a function attended by Mr Ruto. The governor later accused the county woman representative of inciting residents against her. Mrs Ngirichi denied the accusations, saying the county boss “is engaged in theatrics to cover up her failures”. “As a party, we promised to unite the nation and keep the promises we made to Kenyans. Jubilee leaders should work together and deliver on our big four agenda,” the deputy president said. DEVELOPMENTHe dismissed the Friday incident, saying it is still too early to play politics. “We are done with politics. It is time to work,” he said. His sentiments were echoed by politicians and other Jubilee party leaders from central Kenya. Ndia MP George Kariuki urged Mrs Ngirichi and Ms Waiguru to work with other elected leaders from the county “for the sake of development”. “We need to unite as Kirinyaga leaders and serve the people. We cannot change our leaders until 2022,” he said. RESPECTGatundu South MP Moses Kuria hit out at leaders for inciting young people into violence and heckling other politicians. “If you are going to use someone to heckle your rival, enrol him in the National Hospital Insurance Fund, buy him a dairy cow and give him Sh20,000 first. Young people should not agree to be used to shout down anybody,” he said. Governor Waiguru, who on Saturday called for the arrest of the woman representative, said she would respect other leaders and is ready to work with them. The county boss, however, said she would not be cowed by opponents. “I respect all leaders and have nothing against anybody,” she said in vernacular. Ms Ngirici kept off the topic and instead focused on development projects. Mr Ruto said the government would construct 65 kilometres of road, a bridge and set up technical institutions in Kirinyaga County.   The governor accuses the MP of ‘hiring' goons to heckle her at DP Ruto's function in Kerugoya.