President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday revisited his unity deal with Opposition leader Raila Odinga, saying he needs to move the country beyond partisan politics to achieve economic growth. Although he didn’t mention the March 9 handshake between him and Mr Odinga, he said his Government has resolved to work with all leaders across the political divide for development’s sake. The two leaders shook hands for the first time since the controversial October 26 repeat elections last year, which Mr Odinga boycotted and later vowed not to recognise President Kenyatta. “We all agree that if we join hands and run developments projects, we will change the face of our country, uplift the lives of Kenyans and make every Kenyan proud. "We are fed up with constant politicking; let us work. Kenyans want water, electricity, affordable food and better health services, not cheap politics,” Mr Kenyatta said at a rally in Bomet, where he was with his Deputy William Ruto. CORRUPTION They opened eye and dental clinics at Tenwek Mission Hospital, which were constructed at a cost of Sh300 million. The leaders said the Jubilee administration will reach out to all stakeholders including counties, non-governmental organisations, private and public sectors, to speed up economic growth in order to realise their four-point development agenda – food security, affordable housing, universal healthcare and manufacturing. “Jubilee is keen to ensure everything we promised to transform our country is achieved. That will only happen if we mobilise every resource and every sector to push the transformation agenda,” Mr Ruto said. The President said many development projects had been derailed by corrupt cartels which, he added, were deeply rooted in public offices. “I have learnt several lessons here. You will not be able to blind me again,” he told top officials from the Health ministry. “I continue to warn officers who think they are in office to squander public money. "We have seen development here and it is clear that money has been well spent. What if we also set aside money and build such centres in every county, will we not transform our country?” he asked. EACC REPORTThat the President repeated this warning while launching a multimillion-shilling hospital is significant because a year after he took office for his first term, he publicly admitted that his own office was swarming with corrupt cartels. He would later publicise a list of officials he said were implicated in various scandals. Though most of them were eventually acquitted in the courts, it did not save Kenya from scoring poorly in global corruption rankings. According to Transparency International, the country is ranked at 143 out of 180 countries across the globe in corruption. And according to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, seven in every 10 corrupt dealings involve procurement of goods and services for public offices. The commission says that the country loses Sh600 billion annually through corruption. CLINICSThe new clinic has a capacity to handle 20,000 patients and conduct 5,000 surgeries yearly. The President told Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki, who was present, to supervise construction of four similar clinics in Eldoret, Nyeri, Nairobi and Mombasa by next year, or risk losing her job. He said the government will allocate Sh300 million to each of the four facilities. “Today I am putting people on notice. Waziri (Health CS Sicily Kariuki), know that you are on notice. "Next year, we want four clinics like this in Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital, Kenyatta National Hospital, Nyeri and Mombasa. "If this does not happen, please start looking for another job because many Kenyans want these positions and can deliver,” he said while addressing a rally at Tenwek High School. Bomet Governor Joyce Laboso said all leaders in the region were united and focused on development. “We are happy because of your promise to construct Tenwek road, but also remember to give us Sh250 million for completion of Bomet Green Stadium and expansion of the airstrip,” she said.   Meeting marks end of election politics, beginning of healing and unity, he says.