The Kenya Airports Authority (KAA) has introduced new parking fees at Nairobi's Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA), This comes as the agency seeks to maximise revenue from the facility that is currently undergoing a massive expansion. Motorists dropping off or picking passengers will pay the higher fees from Sunday, April 15, according to a public notice by the Kenya Airports Parking Services (KAPS). The agency is contracted by KAA to collect parking fee on its behalf. READ: JKIA named most improved airport in Africa ALSO READ: Kenya working on finer details ahead of direct New York flights 20 minutes A review of the proposed rates by KAA show that any saloon car accessing the airport and parking for under 20 minutes would be charged Sh100. Owners of saloon cars parked at the airport’s drop-off and pick-up zone for between 20 and 40 minutes will pay Sh250 while those parked for between 40 minutes and 1 hour will pay Sh350. Those staying for up to two hours will pay Sh500. “The new rates come in place on 15th April, we are acting on a directive from Kenya Airports Authority who are our clients,” said KAPS in a notice. “No vehicle shall be allowed to stay in the zone for two hours. Vehicles staying longer than two hours shall be penalised,” it added. Uproar The decision to introduce the parking rates has been met with uproar from various airport users. “These rates have no justification. They will only make our taxi services costlier,” said John Njoroge, a taxi operator who plies the Nairobi CBD and airport route. “It's always great to think through actions. This is exploitation and not helping make the airport better. Stop punishing the clients of JKIA,” said Twitter user Robert Alai. JKIA, the busiest and fastest growing logistical hub in eastern and central Africa, currently handles an average of 7.5 million passengers yearly. Revenue boost The agency has been looking to boost its revenue. “With anticipated growth in business and the need to maximise its bottom-line, KAA is looking into ways of increasing its revenue streams from the current and future revenue streams out of its infrastructure services,” KAA had earlier said. KAA is planning a new facility that will, upon completion, further increase capacity by an additional 20 million passengers annually. “With KAA’s development of Terminal 1A, 1E and 2, JKIA’s annual capacity has increased to 7.5 million passengers, closer to her 2020 envisioned handling target of 10.5 million passengers per annum,” said KAA earlier. READ: KAA flattens businesses outside Mombasa's airport - VIDEO  