Many questions have been asked in the recent past as to why boxing is no longer the glittering sport both young and old used to be so proud of in Kenya they could fill boxing halls long before fights started. During the golden years of boxing in Kenya, particularly in the 1970s and 1980s, fans who could not make it to the boxing halls would be glued to their radios listening to the broadcaster giving his best to the many boxing fans. Kenyan fans loved their boxers and always cheered them wherever they met them. It is very rare these days to hear live radio or TV broadcasts involving boxing. Under the chairmanship of Major (Retired) Marsden Madoka, the then competent team at the Amateur Boxing Association of Kenya (ABA) was among the best not just in Kenya, but also in Africa and the world at large. But boxing activities seem to have taken a sabbatical leave after the departure of the Madoka team that had served in the 1970s and 1980s. In the run-up to the 1987 All Africa Games, ABA had ensured Kenya participated in many regional and continental tournaments - a move that exposed and hardened the young boxers. When Pan African Games were held in Kenya in August that year (1987) August, the national team made history yet to be matched, winning eight gold medals. The 1980s saw Kenyan boxers leave an indelible mark on the international scene by demolishing continental opponents to be crowned the undisputed African Kings. Those were the days when ‘Hit Squad’ competed toe-to-toe with ring superpowers of those days Russia, America and Cuba at the world championship and were dreaded at the Annual Kings Cup tournament in Bangkok, Thailand.   According to Reuben Ndolo, well versed in the field of sports particularly boxing, the standard of boxing has deteriorated because boxing halls where the youth used to train and box are no more. Says Ndolo: “Young people have nowhere to train since social halls that used to tap talent have been taken over by institutions like churches among other users. The standard of amateur boxing in Kenya having gone so down also means we do not produce good professionals. When you look back to 1968 Mexico Olympics and 1972 Munich Olympics Kenya produced memorable results because boxing was taken more seriously.” Ndolo says there were too many people, including crooks, who went to 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympics to eat and enjoy at the expense of athletes who had to struggle mostly on their own to produce good results for the love of their country. “The President is doing a commendable job in support to sports in this country, but he needs to go deep and have all sports bodies scrutinised to get rid of crooks,” says Ndolo. Steve Muchoki, the only boxer to have won a world title for Kenya and Africa as an amateur in the 1970s, says there is need for the ministry of sports to give enough support to our sportsmen and sportswomen. That way, Kenya will go far and be among the best in the world. Omar Kasongo, another retired seasoned boxer who participated in the 1996 Atlanta Olympic Games, says there is need to approach local companies and make them understand the need to support boxing by forming new clubs where regular competitions can organised. INTERNATIONAL EXPOSURE “Our boxers need more international exposure, especially the juniors who hold the future of boxing in Kenya,” says Omar. When it comes to serious boxing, only three clubs - Kenya Police Service, Kenya Defence Forces and Kenya Prison Service - have been left to compete among themselves in the national league. This means the talent in the slums and other areas where the youth converge in great numbers will not be effectively tapped. These are the ones to be nurtured to join selection for local and international competitions. If the government and betting companies resolve the matter of taxation fairly and faster, there could be hope that boxing, among other sports, will benefit. SportPesa became the official sponsor of the 2016 National Boxing League and presented a Sh20 million sponsorship deal running for three years. The betting company is the first sponsor of amateur boxing in Kenya, according to the Boxing Association of Kenya. By sponsoring the league now known as the SportPesa National Boxing League (SNBL), and assuming the sponsorship will continue, it will be a way to encourage more youth to take up boxing as a sport to be proud of. Although the sponsors were initially dealing with individual boxing matches, they decided to do much more after the sponsorship, including meeting administrative costs of running the league. They have been paying match officials, logistics and team allowances. They have also been footing the bills of venues of  all boxing matches as well as paying casuals who work during matches. The marketing of upcoming matches through road-shows and flyers is undertaken by the sponsor who also buys kits and equipment for teams and match officials. So far, the three-year sponsorship has seen the boxing league grow from the previous six teams to 18 in active matches. This has also led to more boxing fans thronging various locations to watch matches. This sounds encouraging but given the rising population of our youth and lack of interest by state corporations and private companies to have boxing clubs as part of their social responsibilities, then we have many challenges to think of. The county governments can play a major role in tapping youth talent by forming clubs to cater for various sports as part of their budget. Various methods can be defined to raise regular funds from within the counties, the national government and private sector. The clubs can own businesses to boost their kitty. That way, boxing among other sports will play a major role in nation building and help reduce crime associated with idleness. TOUGH TIMES Even as we remember the hard times our boxers have gone through over the years, dead or alive, we should remember them and even seek ways to make their lives bearable, including families of those who have died. In a well coordinated manner, the government and the private sector have the capacity to set aside funds to improve their lives. Boxers are just like the freedom fighters whose struggle deserve respect and support. Some of the boxers who have crisscrossed the world over the years and brought fame to Kenya, making everybody proud are Robert Wangila, gold medallist in the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, South Korea and Philip Waruinge - who represented Kenya in three consecutive Olympics starting in 1964. Waruinge claimed bronze in Mexico in 1968 and was awarded the Val Baker Trophy for the Outstanding Boxer. This was a very rare achievement. He captured silver in the 1972 Munich Olympics. Stephen Muchoki, regarded as Kenya’s most successful amateur boxer whose climax was in 1978 when he became world boxing champion in Belgrade, Yugoslavia, brought fame to Kenya. Others are Modesty Napunyi Oduori, Chris Odera, Joseph Akhasamba, Nick Okoth, Stephen Mwema, Benson Gicharu who is one of the most successful boxers currently, Abdirahman Ramadhan, Conjestina Achieng, Rayton Okwiri, Fatuma Zarika, Ibrahim Bilali, Omar Ahmed and Evans Ashira Oure who is the most successful professional boxer so far based in Denmark. They are proof that Kenya produced world-class boxers when the tidings were good. wakiboi@yahoo.com   The team entered residential training camp on March 3.