The recent conclusion of a criminal court case investigated by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) regarding the irregular purchase of a 120-acre parcel of land for a public cemetery is a major boost to the war against corruption. Kenyans have waited for eight years for the verdict but, following the sentencing, all are bound to appreciate that being corrupt has dire consequences.  The hefty fines amounting to millions of shillings and mandatory jail terms against two accused persons found guilty of fraud sends a strong warning to the corrupt. The saga goes way back to 2009, when the now-defunct Nairobi City Council decided to acquire land for a new cemetery in Athi River, Machakos County. Investigations revealed that there were irregularities in the purchase of the land. SH40 MILLION In the judgment delivered by Anti-Corruption Court Magistrate Felix Kombo, Boniface Okerosi Misera, a former director of procurement at the Ministry of Local Government, and Cephas Kamande Mwaura, a surveyor, will each serve two years imprisonment and pay fines of Sh40 million and Sh37.2 million, respectively. The fine is, by no means, a small amount. This case is one of those recently concluded and judgments issued in favour of the EACC and the prosecution. The judgment indicates positively that significant progress is being made in the fight against corruption, the conviction a clear demonstration that the war against the vice is steadily producing results. The cemetery land case judgment follows another notable conviction of a senior government official — a chief executive officer of a State corporation. The criminal corruption case against former Youth Enterprise Development Fund CEO Juma Mwangala Mwatata instituted in court by the EACC in 2015. Mwatata was convicted on February 28 and fined Sh1 million or one-year imprisonment in default. ARDUOUS Another notable demonstration of the efforts by the EACC in fighting graft is the successful prosecution of former director of Kenya Wine Agencies Ltd (Kwal) Charles Kizito Masinde, a retired military captain, who was fined fined Sh500,000 for corruption. In the latest conviction by the Anti-Corruption Court, on March 27, a former Ministry of Education officer, Samuel Odigo Michira, was fined Sh964,000 for misappropriating funds in the Free Primary Education programme. The period of trial on the three cases shows that investigating and prosecuting corruption cases take very long and are arduous. The complexity and nature of the investigations into corruption cases impacts on the number of cases filed in court and prosecuted. The EACC finalised 25 criminal cases, resulting in conviction of 26 persons, in the financial year ending June 2017. Only one suspect was acquitted. SETBACK Despite the success in the cases, however, there has been a setback caused by decisions from the Magistrate’s Courts. For instance, the recent acquittal of 23 suspects linked to the National Youth Service (NYS) scandal by the Anti-Corruption Court demonstrates that the war against corruption is not smooth sailing. The suspects earned their freedom after the magistrate ruled that there was no sufficient evidence to convict them. One suspect in the case was, however, found to have a case to answer and will be placed on his defence. Mr Selesio Karanja, a supply chain assistant at NYS, is accused of fraudulent practice in procurement. But all is not lost, because the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions appealed against the decision. The fight against corruption is a collaborative effort of all the agencies and institutions mandated by our Constitution to fight the vice. The war must be won for Kenya. Mr Waqo is Secretary/CEO, Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC). hwaqo@integrity.go.ke  