Justice Paul Kihara Kariuki, who assumed the office of the Attorney-General this week, has a herculean task ahead and must hit the ground running. He comes to office at a critical moment when the country is grappling with tough social, political, legal and economic challenges. The first task is to thaw the frosty relationship between the Executive and Judiciary, which is getting poisoned by the day as the latter becomes assertive to rein in errant government officers. Part of the problem is the failure by the Executive to appreciate the transformation at the Judiciary through the Constitution. No longer does the Judiciary operate as an appendage or apologist for the Executive as was the case under the old Constitution, particularly during the single-party era. RULE OF LAW Therefore, as the chief legal adviser to the government, Justice Kariuki must emphasise respect for institutions and fidelity to the rule of law. He should not be blinded by politics — but only law — in advising the government. Legal advice must be unalloyed and distinguished from political expedience. Second, legal reforms that began in earnest after the ratification of the Constitution in 2010 have not been concluded. Statutory changes that ought to have been accomplished within specified timelines are still pending. The AG must do an audit to isolate the laws that require review or fresh formulation and act on them. COURT CASESConcomitant to that, Justice Kariuki must take a lead role in helping courts to clear the backlog of cases, which undermines justice. Quite often, cases involving the government pend for a long time due to the ineffective representation by the AG, contributing to the backlog. The AG must lobby Parliament to provide resources to effect administrative reforms such as recruiting more State counsel, training and retaining them. With his distinguished career in the Judiciary and private practice, Justice Kariuki comes to his new office with deep insights, networks and goodwill that he should leverage to entrench independence and collaboration with other arms of government. He should seize this monumental chance to restore the dignity of the office.  