Volunteers doing good work ***** Volunteers at these games have been doing a brilliant job, their smiling faces and warm reception of guests legendary. There are some 15,000 volunteers working here, many of them retired professionals who just wanted to spend time being of help and to make the games a success. “In Queensland, we are easy-going people…we love visitors. That’s just our culture,” one of the volunteers at the Broadbeach Bowls Club said when I asked if the locals ever get annoyed. Happy people! Very funny how times change! ***** Kenya’s High Commissioner to Australia, Isaiah Kabira, Monday offered interesting facts and figures on Kenya-Australia statistics. Did you know that in 1960, the population of Australia was 10 million people, while Kenya’s was just eight million? Today, Australia has 24 million people and Kenya 50 million! Meanwhile, did you also know that there are 44 million kangaroos in Australia and over 70 million sheep? Tough Media race lined up here ***** After dropping out of an 800m media race at last year’s IAAF World Championships in London fearing strict anti-doping rules, I’m hesitant to register for a similar one lined up here on Wednesday. But the media race here is a special one, made up of teams of four from each country running a 4x100m relay blindfolded! Organisers say this is to offer scribes an “opportunity to experience the track as a visually impaired athlete or guide would,” and “to have some friendly rivalry with media colleagues.” Drones under strict surveillance ***** Police in Queensland have issued a warning against the use of drones at competition venues after four incidents were reported of the devices being used in restricted areas. The Civil Aviation Safety Authority is investigating a young man caught operating a drone illegally and police are employing anti-drone guns that shoot devices overflying the no-fly zones. Fines of as much as 250,000 Australia dollars (Sh19.2 million) are being slapped on offenders!   Kenya now has just Monday’s silver and two bronze medals.