Kenya is currently in the process of enacting a Computer and Cybercrimes law to curb illegal activity conducted through a computer system. These crimes include hacking, credit card theft, cyber terrorism, electronic bullying and stalking, identity theft and creating and distributing child pornography. It coincides with Kenya’s leading standing in ICTs that has transformed internet connectivity to one of the best in the world, money transfer platforms, government services such as eCitizen, transmission of examination results, tax returns processes and even surveillance capabilities. These make the private sector and even government departments vulnerable to cybercrimes. Things that are considered criminal in the real world are also considered illegal within the cyberspace. HACKING As such, if child pornography is prohibited, it follows that it would be illegal to create or distribute such material through computer systems. If it is illegal to fraudulently obtain funds from someone, it should likewise be outlawed via computers and the internet. Cybercrimes can involve activities that are traditional in nature, such as fraud, forgery and hate speech – all of which are subject to the Penal Code. Crimes involving computer systems such as unauthorised access may also be addressed by the Kenya Information and Communications Act. To tackle the issue of cybercrime sufficiently, policymakers and Kenyans at large need to appreciate two unique features predicating the need for such legislation. First, that such crimes target a computer system to obtain or disrupt data, through virus attacks and hacking. LAWSThe second category involves the use of a computer as a weapon – for instance using a computer to commit or promote real world crimes such as credit card fraud, money transfer fraud, promotion of terrorism and child pornography. It thus follows, cybercrime laws should be understood as laws to buttress existing laws in tackling specific issues related to new technology that were not in place or were inconceivable when the laws were originally passed. For example, when laws on obtaining money through false pretence were passed, lawmakers did not conceive the internet and its instant and international reach, the fact that the perpetrator could be sitting in Russia, scamming someone in Kenya and transferring the monies to his account in Spain while relying on servers in Iceland. REGULATIONInternationally, it has been understood that cybercrime laws need to provide legal sanctions against breach of confidentiality, integrity and availability of computer systems and computer data; computer-related offences including forgery and fraud – and content-related offences such as the criminalisation of child pornography. Countries are also required to setup procedural requirements for investigation and prosecution of cybercrimes, including orders for preservation, production, search and seizure of computer data. Such guidelines are important to ensure that states do not delve into legal sanctions that unjustifiably infringe on fundamental rights such as freedom of expression, right to information and privacy, or sanctions that are already well catered for in several penal provisions. EXPRESSIONA quick glance at the latest Draft Computer and Cybercrimes Bill reveals a concentration on content-related offences, which can be termed as unnecessary and disproportionate. The bill creates offences criminalising the exchange of particular types of content, including “false publications and communications” that “detrimentally affect a person”. Such laws are likely to violate constitutional safeguards on freedom of expression. The challenge with the wording used above is that they are vague and overly broad, thereby potentially casting a wider net of speech or content than is intended. The rationale being that the rule of law as a constitutional principle requires that a citizen, before committing himself to any action, should be able to know in advance its legal consequences. One can innocently spread a “false publication” or content that “detrimentally affects a person” without criminal intent. To an untrained eye, fake or false news may pass as legitimate news sources. The global debate about Cambridge Analytica and the role of Facebook in spreading misinformation in several elections worldwide showcases the challenge of criminalising content. Writer is a Senior Legal Officer - Article 19 Eastern Africa; demaslaw@gmail.com  Twitter: @kipdemas  