While acres of newspaper pages have been devoted to various topics on matters real estate, not much has been written about air rights, Mr Michael Munene, a Nyeri-based property valuer, notes. This, he says, is unfortunate, given the huge potential  air rights have in relation  to real estate. He adds that both the government and the big-spending moneyed property investors stand to gain if  air rights were taken into consideration. “It could be the next frontier in our real estate industry,” emphasises the property valuer. But what are air rights? Dr  Jack Mwimali, a property lawyer and lecturer, says this basically refers to the space above your property, its ownership, extent of ownership and lack of it (ownership) thereof. “When we talk about air rights in real estate circles, we are asking ourselves fundamental questions about the air above your property. Do you own the space? If so, how high does the ownership extend? If not, why? What is the existing legislation in regard to this? Are there any land rates payable for vertical ownership?” While in Kenya there is no legislation  pertaining to air rights, Dr Mwimali says it is not a new concept and has been in existence since the 13th century. “It stems from Italian scholars, Accursius, popular maxim, which basically goes: “Whoever owns the soil, holds title all the way up to the heavens and down to the depths of hell”. In legal circles, he notes, it is described as the traditional starting point of property law and is considered to have been instrumental in shaping what we know as property law today. But the blanket nature of the Italian scholar’s maxim was exposed when issues of air traffic, right to natural light and right to an unblocked view of the spectacular environment surrounding your property  arose. “Even though the air above my property is rightfully mine, wouldn’t I be infringing on my neighbours right to natural light if I block the sun from him? Wouldn’t I be posing a hazard if I build a house that is very tall along a flight bath? “ he poses. With these issues taken into consideration, the issue of who owns the air above your property ceased to be a foregone conclusion and became a talking point in many real estate sectors across the globe. The US was the first to act in the year 1943. In a quirky case involving chicken farmers and an iconoclastic US.Supreme Court judge,  a legal doctrine was established; a doctrine that has left drone investors scratching their heads  before they are allowed to fly their drones over private property while delivering goods or going about their businesses. FRIGHTENED CHICKENS In 1934, Thomas and Tinie Causby bought 2.8 acres next to a small rarely busy airfield near Greensboro in North Carolina, US, and started a poultry business But after World War II erupted, the United States leased the field as a military airbase, and four-engine bombers, among other airplanes, flew over the Causby property day and night, descending  as low as 83 feet — just 67 feet above their home — on the glide-slope to the runway. “They would swoop down so close to the house that it seemed they were taking the roof off,” Tinie Causby testified. Besides unnerving them, the flights terrified the chickens. “They would jump off the roost, get excited and jump against the side of the chicken house and the walls and burst themselves open and die,” Thomas Causby said. “I have taken out as high as six or 10 in one day.” At the time, the laws regulating air travel were still hazy. The ancient legal maxim about the person owning the land also owning the space above it had been superseded by the American Air Commerce Act of 1926, which declared the air free. The Causbys, therefore, stood to get no compensation, as they had sought. But thanks to William Comer, the lawyer they hired after liquidating their poultry business, Supreme Court Judge William, O Douglas not only compensated the two,  but also set a precedent that has revolutionised the regulation of air travel and ownership across the whole globe. Lawyer Comer argued that the military flights had rendered the land inhabitable, making it gravely depreciate in value, and which constituted the  taking over of private land for public use, which was illegal in the US. Therefore, he wanted compensation (triple the price of the land and also for the dead poultry, which stood at 3,481 hens in two years). The Supreme Court Judge ordered the compensation, but also wrote in his ruling: “We have said that the airspace is a public highway, yet it is obvious that if the landowner is to have full enjoyment of the land, he must have exclusive control of the immediate reaches of the enveloping atmosphere. Otherwise, buildings could not be erected, trees could not be planted, and even fences could not be run.” And even though Justice Douglas did not indicate  the  limits of the “enveloping atmosphere”’ Nairobi-based lawyer John Gichuhi, like Dr Mwimali, notes that this case has guided many developed countries in establishing legal frameworks with regard to ownership and control of air rights above private properties. The Britons for instance, says  Mr Gichuhi, provide for ownership and unfettered access of between 500 and 1,000 feet above your private property, provided all legal consideration in regard to air safety, air travel and your neighbour’s right to natural light and view are observed. “The catch is that just like land rates are paid for private property, there are also air rates to be paid for the amount of air space you want to develop over your property,” says  Mr Gichuhi, adding that this, of course, earns the British government a considerable amount of money. “You not only pay horizontally, a flat rate for the parcel of land you own, but you also pay vertically, essentially the number of floors you have put up until you reach the 1,000-feet mark, that is your precise limit of ownership over the enveloping atmosphere,” explains the lawyer. On the other hand, the Americans generally allow 500 feet ownership of the air above the property, but this, as well as the maximum allowable limit,  differs from one state to another.   It is commonly  as special ownership and attracts a special fee payable to the  state. But if the Americans and Britons have what Dr Mwimali refers to as blanket legislation in regard to air rights and ownership, the Maltese have gone a step further: While the land above and below a property is principally owned by the registered owner, there are no limits as to how high an investor can build. “Basically the government of Malta does not employ a blanket rule in regard to how high the air space is owned by the private owner but rather treats each case as it is, or what is popularly known as a case by case situation,” he says. And contrary to popularly belief, he adds, airplanes do not use the whole airspace but specific routes that are accurately demarcated, and from which they rarely depart. This means that apart from these demarcated air routes and the surrounding areas, the remaining air space is open to investors, who pay a certain fee to the government. Mr Gichuhi notes that, in Kenya, the  laws dealing with air space are prohibitive and have just one aim: protecting  air traffic and military installations across the country. “But have we  wonder how much revenue the government would earn if it put in place the necessary legislation to govern the development of private air space and also levy fees for these developments?,” he asks. “Nairobi County for one will easily sustain itself with its multiple existing and proposed skyscrapers.” Mr Gichuhi says it is high time both the national and county governments (whether national or county) became creative and stop charging land rates only horizontally, but also think vertically. “Honestly, there is no justification whatsoever for someone who has built a single-storey house on a parcel of land to pay the same land rates as someone who has eight floors on the a  parcel of land of the same size The latter’s is obviously far more profitable,” Mr Gichuhi, argues. He says it is like asking someone who earns Sh10,000 a day and another who earns Sh500 a day, to pay the same amount of tithe at church. “Even God doesn’t allow that!” he says. He says these inequalities can be corrected by enacting the appropriate lawas on air rights and ownership. Again, he continues, investors coming up with these skyscrapers are obviously not paupers and charging them a special tax for going up high in the air will not cause a revolution. “It will be a euphemistic way of charging them a sin tax for their bourgeois status. The value airspace adds to property Mr Michael Munene, a Nyeri-bases  property valuer, says:  “There is no way  you can compare a property where you are allowed to build a limitless number of floors either upwards or downwards with another that  is near a military airbase, where you cannot go more than two or three floors upwards. Their values will be as different as   day and night.” Similarly, he offers, a property near the coastal that allows you a clear view of the sea, or one that gives you a good view of   wildlife and nature will sell like hot cakes compared to those that does not. “Also, a property with unfettered access to natural light will obviously be more valuable and more sought after,” says the  valuer. Whether or not the government will takes up the challenge and enacts legislation on air rights, property lecturer   Dr Jack Mwimali says, the advantages of tenants, investors and  the government are  obvious. “It is a win-win situation for all,” he says. To which Mr Munene adds:  “This might herald a new successful and profitable era for  the real estate sector in Kenya, and in Africa at large.”  