She is one of the biggest names in Kenya’s entertainment industry and the main act in "Disconnect", a Kenyan comedy film which will premiere on April 21. Brenda Wairimu is also a model and has a daughter.  You associate produced ‘Disconnect’; how did that come to be? I was one of the people who first initiated the project when I tweeted that Kenya needs a romantic comedy story told. I became part of the project from its conceptual stage. When Tosh Gitonga came on board, we worked together as more than just cast and director/executive producer. The film had some of the biggest names in the industry. What was it like during the shooting? These are seasoned actors who are aware of the importance of professionalism and getting the job done in the quickest and best way possible. It was amazing. What was it like when you were shooting the movie? Long hours and plenty of fun. It’s always fun playing a new character. How did you prepare for the role? I always spend as much time as I can by myself. Mornings on set are especially quiet for me. I try to see life through the eyes of my character, and try to stay true to her as much as I can. What has changed in the industry you’ve been in for more than a decade? Quality of work being put out. More and more people are beginning to embrace acting and all the jobs that come with film as a legitimate career choice. We can now live off our art. What can you say has been the biggest role in your career? All of them really. Each one has been a learning curve towards my next character and job. No role has been too small or too big. What have you learned from acting, especially on the local scene? That there is a certain way you must carry yourself and relate to everyone you work with, to be taken seriously as a thespian. Don’t act like a star, be a star in the way you work, and you will be treated as such. You’re a private person, but what did Juliani tell you after he saw the movie; that is if he did? Not quite yet! I will be sure to let you know! What would you pick between acting and television hosting, and why? Acting. Being in tune with my emotions; it’s like music to my soul. Which roles do you prefer and would you be a good villain if so cast? It’s always fun playing a villain. I think I would do okay! I would love to play all the roles I can get my hands on; acting is all about challenge. What would you do if you couldn’t act? Be a veterinarian. When you suffer a setback, how does that emotionally affect you and your craft? I try to use it to my advantage. Say, I’m having a particularly hard day, and I have to cry in my scenes that day, it ends up working perfectly. And if I am to be jovial, then being able to get my mind off whatever is bothering me is a blessing on its own as well. Do you think you could have done a past performance better? What was the performance? Why could you have done it better? All of them. I always go home somewhat dissatisfied because I feel I could have done a better job. My first few roles were particularly bad, though. (Laughs out loud) Of all the roles you have played, which is your favourite and would you ever consider acting with Juliani? I could never choose just one. I love them all! The question you should be asking is, if he can even act (laughs again).   She is an award-winning actress with more than a decade of experience in media and TV production.