Satyam Shivam Sundaram is the title of Kamini’s School of Dancing’s annual dance presentation this year. The name translates to Truth Godliness and Beauty and Kamini’s dancing beauties are all set to mesmerise theatregoers and dance enthusiasts with a godly inspired truth about classical dance styles at the Oshwal Centre Auditorium on the evening of Saturday, April 14 2018. The showing comprises of semi-classical dances interspersed with a popular selection of Bollywood routines. In a press release from the school, Guru Kamini asserts that the sheer magic of her choreography, the selection of dances and the grace and charm of her dancing beauties is sure to make a lasting impression. Kamini and her school of dancing have presented numerous dance shows on our stage for the last four decades or so. The shows have excelled, not only in promoting the sacred art of Indian dance, but also in creating landmarks in creative execution of the art form. Besides presenting shows, Kamini has groomed scores of dance enthusiasts, thus serving the cause of art promotion in a manner few other institutions have done. Her school has also been in the forefront of staging fashion shows, art and craft exhibitions and participation in theatrical and musical extravaganzas in Kenya and abroad. Satyam Shivam Sundaram promises to be yet another Kamini dance exposition of truly beautiful dances blessed by the gods. Advance booking is strongly recommended. Tickets are available from Shahtaj Collections Limited. And the finals of the unique and much talked about Kenyan Asian cultural and culinary competition the East FM Koroga Premier League, were held at Azalea Carrebea in Hurlingham the other Sunday. It saw the finalists battling for handsome cash awards and the floating Champions Trophy. The teams managed by ace presenters of the station, Kamal Kaur, Seema Manji, Vikash Pattni, Ali Khan and Allaudin Qureshi went all Swad Ka Swagat were placed second and third respectively. The competition was fun galore, not only for the teams that participated, but also for those who attended.  For pictures, visit the arts and culture section on www.nation.co.ke    Email: qureshi@simbatech   Voices of Kenya Union, a social and cultural group of Kenya Asian radio and stage artists  now living in England, announced the death of a legendary educationist, stage actor and broadcaster early this month. Harbhajan Singh Preet, was living in Cardiff.