The National Treasury has opposed a bill seeking to create an equivalent of the Constituency Development Fund at the ward level on the basis that it claws back the fiscal powers of the county executives. The Treasury said if enacted, the bill will entrench inequality and marginalisation of some communities in the counties. Through Mr Nelson Gaichuhie, the Chief Administrative Secretary in the ministry, the Treasury argued that counties are distinct entities which derive their operational powers through boundaries set by law, warning that these powers do not extend to appropriating funds outside the law. It thus wants the sponsor of the bill to withdraw it. EQUITYThe County Wards Development Equalisation Bill, 2018, sponsored by Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata, is seeking to establish a fund through which eight per cent of the equitable shareable revenue of every county will be allocated to respective wards for development. According to the senator, the bill aims at ensuring equity in distribution of resources. The bill also provides a mechanism for identification of priority projects in each ward through public participation. But Treasury argued that only a county executive has powers under the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) to create a fund. Mr Gaichuhie said the bill offends the constitutional provision on the establishment of public funds. “The sponsor has not explained whether the bill complies with the requirements of establishing such funds as provided in the PFM Act,” he said when he appeared before the Senate Finance and Budget Committee during public hearings on the bill. DIMERITSMr Gaichuhie said the PFM Act gives counties, through their Finance executives, the power to establish such funds with the approval of assemblies. He said establishing such funds was within the purview of the counties themselves and not in the domain of the national legislation. He told the committee that enacting the bill may lead to double allocations in some counties, spread the resources thin and reduce the capacity of county governments to fund some high capacity development programmes. While she supported the idea of having a framework that will ensure equitable development in counties, Controller of Budget Agnes Odhiambo also opposed the bill, arguing that county assemblies have the necessary powers to ensure the objective of the bill is achieved.  