Wiper Democratic Movement leader Kalonzo Musyoka has declared that he is now his own man in politics and will not play second fiddle to anyone, indicating that he is ready to risk it all and push to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022. His assertion, followed by a clever swipe at his National Super Alliance (Nasa) co-principal, Mr Raila Odinga, “for doing nothing to stop the mischievous branding of the Wiper leader as a watermelon” by a section of the opposition, was also the clearest indication yet that he is re-examining and re-evaluating the usefulness of the opposition coalition to his political ambitions, which he said would also be fed by the counsel of, among others, retired Presidents Mwai Kibaki and Daniel Moi. Mr Musyoka, who rallied leaders from his Kamba community to a conference at Komarock in Machakos County on Monday, charged that he has no political debts to pay, and that he will not sacrifice his political ambitions once again in favour of any other candidates. Last year, he dropped his presidential ambitions to support Mr Odinga, who flew the Nasa flag at the ballot. Because he had also supported Mr Mwai Kibaki’s bid earlier, and Mr Odinga in 2013, too, he did not have any political obligation to back another candidate in the 2022 elections, he said. PRESIDENTIAL BID “I’ve in the past thrown my weight behind leaders from other communities, and now it’s my turn to reach out to all Kenyans to support my candidacy,” Mr Musyoka said. He was, however, quick to point out that his presidential bid would not depend on any other leader in Nasa, including Mr Odinga, declaring him suitable for the position, but rather he would ride on his own to win the 2022 race for State House. “I’ll reach out and engage with my colleagues in Nasa as well as all other leaders, including our retired Presidents Daniel Moi, Mwai Kibaki and even President Uhuru Kenyatta for support,” he said. In an apparent reference to Mr Odinga, Mr Musyoka said the people in whom he had immensely invested 10 years of his political career were behind efforts to malign his name politically in recent weeks. “I’ve been called all sorts of names, but I do not take offence,” he said. “If you hear them calling Kalonzo a watermelon, tell them they are the seeds themselves.” POLITICAL UNITY Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu, a long-time political rival of Mr Musyoka’s, hinted at dissolving her Narc party to join Wiper and, thereby, strengthen Kamba political unity, saying she, too, had been a victim of political betrayal in the past. “Wiper is a strong party. I should have come to be baptised here but I will come another day. Even Narc is Wiper. I am for the unity of the Akamba. We need to speak with one voice,” she said. Ms Ngilu said she would mobilise campaign resources and grassroots support for Mr Musyoka across the country. “I was the main voice opposed to our son in the past, but now I am fully behind him.” Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana said the handshake between President Kenyatta and Mr Odinga had put an end to questions about the last General Election, and also levelled the playing field within the Nasa hierarchy. All leaders at the top of the coalition, he said, enjoyed the same clout. Mr Odinga has traditionally been viewed as the head of Nasa, based on his stronger grassroots support and the number of National Assembly and Senate seats his ODM party won last year. “Now all leaders in Nasa are equal,” said Prof Kibwana. CRITICISM Former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama was more categorical in his defence of the Wiper leader, who has borne the brunt of criticism by his opposition colleagues since January 30, when he skipped Mr Odinga’s controversial ‘oathing’ as the ‘people’s president’ at Uhuru Park in Nairobi. He said those accusing Mr Musyoka did not understand that his absence from the ceremony was in the best interests of Wiper. “I was the co-chair of the swearing-in planning committee, alongside Siaya Senator James Orengo of ODM and Ford-Kenya’s Kimilili MP, Dr Simiyu Eseli,” said Mr Muthama. “Why are people bashing my party leader alone instead of seeking answers as to why we all stayed away?” NAME-CALLING The former senator said he was pained by the “unwarranted abuse and name-calling” Mr Musyoka had braved from ODM, and that there was a need to tell Kenyans the truth about the ‘oath’. The leaders, who urged Mr Musyoka to concentrate on revamping his party, fell short of declaring that the Wiper was ready to break ranks with ODM over the perceived disrespect by Mr Odinga’s foot soldiers. Mr Musyoka ran for the presidency in 2007, coming third but entered a post-election coalition with President Kibaki’s Party of National Unity, which offered him the vice-presidency. In the Kibaki succession politics of 2013, he broke ranks with his PNU political allies, Mr Uhuru Kenyatta and Mr William Ruto, and threw his weight behind Mr Odinga, as his running mate.   Mr Kabatesi believes the pull out of ODM will see the other parties unite under Nasa.