Ford-Kenya party leader Moses Wetang’ula has said he has parted ways with his National Super Alliance co-principal Raila Odinga, accusing the ODM leader of turning his back on him during his hour of need. The Bungoma Senator apologised to the Luhya community for backing Mr Odinga in previous elections. “Raila did not only turn his back on me but the entire nation when he allowed my ouster as the Senate minority leader. I want to tell him that this is the last time he got my support,” said Mr Wetang’ula, while addressing mourners at a burial at Nalondo in Kanduyi, Bungoma County on Saturday. FORWARD “I don’t have any bitterness against Raila but all I’m telling him is that my journey with him has now come to an end. I now have my own journey that I will walk with my own people with a view to taking this country forward,” he added. Mr Wetang’ula accused Mr Odinga of having fought the late Michael ‘Kijana’ Wamalwa, Wiper Party Leader Kalonzo Musyoka and Deputy President William Ruto who later became vice presidents. “The whip that Raila used to cane Wamalwa, Kalonzo and Ruto is the same one he has used on me. But I will shock him when I go past the deputy president post. I am going to jump higher than the rest,” he said. HIGHEST SEAT But in what could be viewed as a blow to the Luhya unity bid, Kakamega Governor Wycliffe has announced that he will run for president in the 2022 General Election. Addressing his supporters  at the Bungoma bus terminal on Saturday, Governor Oparanya said leaders in the region have failed to unite the community and time was ripe for him to  vie for the highest seat when his second term as governor ends in 2022. “I have sat down with Wetang’ula and Amani National Congress party leader Musalia Mudavadi and they know my intentions. “If they go ahead of me and succeed, then I will support them and if they see am capable of leading this country then they should  also support me,” he said. READ: Wetangula says NASA's divorce will be messy READ: Wetangula Out: Nasa senators agree to oust READ: Kalonzo, Mudavadi, Wetangula to seek Raila's explanation  