National Treasury Principal Secretary Kamau Thugge said Sh3 billion that is being demanded for pension by university staff since 2010 had not been brought to the attention of the ministry. Dr Thugge told the National Assembly’s Education Committee that it was the first time that he was hearing of the pension arrears that have been pending and which were part of the 2010-2013 and 2013-2017 collective bargaining agreement (CBA). SHOCK The remarks by the PS caught committee members, ministry of Education officials, lecturers and management of universities by surprised. This was the first time that the parties were appearing jointly before the committee since the start of lecturers strike last month and which has paralysed learning in 31 public institutions. Dr Thugge said the government had met its obligation in ensuring that university staff were paid their dues noting that for 2010-2013 Sh7.8 billion was allocated for the CBA while in 2013-2017 Sh10 billion was allocated for the same. University Education Principal Secretary Japheth Ntiba was caught in the mess after Vice-Chancellors Committee Chairman Francis Aduol told the team that all details on the issue had been shared with the ministry of Education. “Since 2010, we have been having correspondences with the Education ministry on the issue of pension and we do not understand how it failed to give the details to National Treasury,” said Prof Aduol. He said after an audit of data, universities are asking for Sh1.27 billion as pension for 2010-2013 and Sh1.7 billion for 2013-2017 CBA making a total of Sh3 billion. This is a revision from Sh3.5 billion that universities were earlier on demanding. Prof Ntiba promised to relook at the issue of pension and engage the National Treasury saying the issue had been brought to his attention when he assumed office in February. “We have formed an inter-ministerial committee on university education in order to help us coordinate activities. We are making progress,” said the PS who admitted that during his first few days in office could not understand what was going on at the ministry. Universities Academic Staff Union Secretary-General Constantine Wasonga said delay in provision of pension had made it hard for those retiring to get their dues on time. Pension for 27,000 university staff is contributory which means that government is not honouring part of its bargain and therefore the package cannot attract good interests.   The recurrent expenditure has received Sh23.2 billion.