Suspended IEBC Chief Executive Ezra Chiloba says he will focus on his farm in Kwanza, Trans-Nzoia County, as he battles his forced leave in court. Speaking to the Nation at his rural home on Tuesday, Mr Chiloba, who has had a long-running fight with Chairman Wafula Chebukati, said he would concentrate on developing the farm he bought in 2011 but has been idle due to lack of time. PASSION "I really don't want to dwell much on what has happened but I leave the matter for the relevant authorities to decide,” he said. I will respect the decision that will be arrived at.” His plan, he said, is to develop a model farm of sorts. "I want this farm to be a demonstration plot for the community members to learn the best farming practices that will transform their lives.” He dismissed claims that he has a bone to pick with his boss Wafula Chebukati, who also hails from Trans-Nzoia. On the land, whose acreage he refused to reveal, Mr Chiloba has planted 600 passion-fruit trees, 500 tissue culture bananas, 100 avocado trees and 340 coffee trees plus a number of indigenous trees. The IEBC CEO said he would lead by example on matters agriculture, saying he would like other people to emulate him. He said the area Governor Patrick Khaemba and agricultural experts from the region were emphasising on growing of high-value crops that will withstand challenges of weather, pests and diseases. CAREER "I want to make the farm a model for the community and my desire is to make residents transform their lives through agri-business instead of relying on maize, which has become valueless and frustrated most farmers," he said. On the expansive farm, Mr Chiloba intends to plant over 4,000 tree seedlings. He said he will not only focus on developing his farm but also on giving back to the community as their son. On his career, the CEO believes his ambitions to rise higher were still on course, saying he was still young and energetic, Luhya leaders taken issue with ongoing battle between Mr Chiloba and Mr Chebukati. "The two are our sons. Why are they fighting? This position was meant for the Luhya community today and if the body was to be disbanded today we will not get the appointment again," said Mr Joshua Werunga the Trans-Nzoia County Assembly Speaker. In October 2017, Mr Chiloba bowed to pressure and took a three-week break during the repeat presidential elections.   IEBC CEO sent on 3-month compulsory leave.