Construction industry stakeholders want the government to locally source contractors and experts for the planned multi-billion shilling affordable housing development. Architectural Association of Kenya president Emma Miloyo said building environment experts should be given a chance to provide alternative designs that do not compromise the provision of essential utilities and spaces. “We have the technical know-how for alternative and low-cost designs that fit the demands of the government where houses will be affordable but dignified. Make the housing pillar a Kenyan affair where everyone benefits instead of outsourcing the same from foreign contractors,” she said at the Kenya Homes Expo, which opened its doors to the public at Kenyatta International Convention Centre in Nairobi on Thursday. Housing secretary Patrick Bucha said Numerical Machining Company has made a building blocks machine that would retail at Sh1.8 million and enable Kenyans to access cheaper building materials within localities. The government has floated a tender to have a 55-acre parcel of land in Mavoko sub-county developed to include 8,000 housing units, a retail outlet and other amenities. Contractors will be encouraged to use alternative building technologies and materials. READ: 60 local and foreign firms bid for Mavoko mass housing project Real estate developer Daniel Ojijo and Kenya Property Developers Association vice-chairman Palkesh Shah welcomed the planned government housing project, especially if it engages local players’ participation. “Housing developers in Kenya are small but have capabilities that if harnessed could fast-track achievement of the government’s plan to uplift livelihoods, generate wealth as well as create jobs across various sectors,” said Mr Shah. Mr Ojijo said the government would help mitigate costs by allocating developers land and provided all utilities. He said a tenant purchase scheme plan would also reduce the cost of housing while generating affordable access to Kenyans. The four-day event has attracted housing developers, construction material manufacturers, solar energy dealers as well as roofing products makers and resellers.  