The ongoing collection of data on learners in primary and secondary schools using a new computer programme brings to the fore the important role of clerical officers, typists and copy takers. Though holding junior positions, these officers nevertheless discharge a very important mandate in the public and private sector. They type or key in data into what ends up as a permanent record, such as identity card, title deed, academic certificate, death certificate and birth certificate. The Convention on the Rights of the Child states that every child should be registered at birth. The birth certificate is not only important to the child’s identity and access to certain rights but the data so captured also informs the government’s planning and allocation of resources. This explains why those behind data collection must rise beyond reproach when discharging their duties. PREPAREDNESSMany parents have been grappling with the deadline of submitting their children’s birth certificates to schools. The rationale for the data capture — which targets 11 million learners — is to test the electronic preparedness of schools ahead of the full rollout of the National Education Information Management System (Nemis) countywide. Specifically, it is to assess the capability of schools to host a functioning computer platform and have internet connectivity. It also seeks to find out if school staff possess adequate skills to navigate the system. Some parents, and teachers’ unions, now want the period extended further. But some delays are a result of inaccuracy. MISSPELLINGMr Chrispinus Omar, a small-scale farmer in Butula, Busia County, has been following up on the document for almost a year. Initially, the forms he had filled were misplaced and he started afresh. It still took long. Eventually, when the certificate was found, his son’s name was misspelt. Confronted by a possibility of another long wait, should he consider leaving the document behind to be rectified or take it? He chose the latter option. His son is now “Tyron Rodney Jur” instead of Tyron Rodney Jr. Such minor errors have huge implications. However, they can be avoided if the officers are more cautious. TITLE DEEDSWe have had cases of title deeds being released to a land buyer without double ‘N’ for the name Dennis. Or the name Lora comes out as “Laura” in a certificate despite the owner having travelled across the country to a border county to give her correct particulars. It hurts when your name is misspelt on a permanent document that is legally binding. In some strict jurisdictions, one might be required to swear an affidavit to transact business. Separated families have suffered more due to such errors. Women who quit abusive marriages with children are finding it difficult to access essential services due to a mismatch of data in their legal documents. ROLE MODELSEducational institutions have kept students waiting because of failure to indicate the right duration that they were there. Even cases of students being awarded marks for subjects they did not study abound! Officers handling sensitive assignments need to be retrained to appreciate the value of their jobs. That will improve service delivery, besides avoiding wastage of resources. But even with a re-engineering of the public sector to enhance accuracy, innovativeness, competitiveness and effectiveness, there is a need to emphasise values in the curriculum so that children join the labour market having internalised them. Teachers and parents alike have a duty to be dependable role models. Mr Odunga is an assistant director, corporate communications, at Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD). dodunga@kicd.ac.ke  