Police officers with disabilities who were slapped with pay cuts after withdrawal of tax exemptions have been told to appear before their employer to prove they qualify to get reliefs. National Police Service Commission has formed eight teams that will examine the affected police officers. The officers were among thousands of law enforcers whose monthly pays was drastically reduced. PAY CUT: Police in mass exit threat - VIDEO GRADUATESAlso affected by the pay cut are constables who were earning higher salary than their colleagues because they had acquired university degrees, but it was reduced after the commission noted the increments were done irregularly. All officers with disability (uniformed and civilian) shall be expected to appear before the select team in regional venues nearest to them. The officers will be expected to fill in an attached questionnaire. The teams will sit at diverse dates in Nairobi, Nyeri, Embu, Nakuru, Garissa, Kakamega, Kisumu and Mombasa. The Commission warned that officers who give false information will be prosecuted. HONESTYThe officers will be required to append their signatures in official forms that read: “I acknowledge that if I give any incorrect or misleading information or if I have omitted any information during the process, I may be disqualified from consideration for any purpose by the commission or, if this is subsequently discovered, I may be liable for disciplinary action.” Those caught giving false information risk being jailed up to two years and a fine not exceeding Sh200,000. When they appear for examination, the officers will also be required to provide “Persons with Disability Identification Card, Persons With Disability Medical Assessment Report and Kenya Revenue Authority tax exemption certificate.” PAYSLIPS The cuts badly affected the officers, mostly those who had taken loans and mortgages after getting enhanced salaries. They have been left with negative balances on their payslips. Others who had purchased properties, taken their children to better schools or even built new houses away from the staff quarters have been devastated by the directive.  