Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has accused Woman Representative Wangui Ngirici and her husband, Andrew, of hiring goons to heckle her in front of the Deputy President William Ruto on Friday. The county boss was booed by a section of locals during the launch of 100km Gakoigo-Njegas stretch of roads in Kirinyaga Central which was presided over by DP Ruto. The locals shouted down the county boss as grassroots divisions played out. “That the politicians would want to disrupt a meeting graced by His Excellency the Deputy President, aimed at bringing development in Kirinyaga and improving the living conditions of our people is not only selfish but also utterly preposterous,” Ms Waiguru said in a statement sent to newsrooms. The Woman Rep has, however, defended herself and her husband insisting they were not involved in the fracas. “We are dismayed by the statement attributed to the governor and wish to state that we were at no time involved in the planning of the disruption,” the Woman Rep said in a rejoinder. Ms Ngirici has, on her part, accused the governor of engaging in political sideshows and called on authorities to investigate the incident. APOLOGY Governor Waiguru also apologized to DP Ruto over the Friday incident maintaining that her focus was on development and not politics. “On behalf of the people of Kirinyaga, I wish to convey my sincere apologies to His Excellency Deputy President William Ruto for the embarrassing incident witnessed on Friday. My focus is on creating jobs for the youth of Kirinyaga, improving healthcare, upgrading our road network and improving agriculture, among other projects, because these are the things that matter most to the people of Kirinyaga,” she said. The Friday function was attended by local and Jubilee leaders from the Central region among them Woman Representative Wangui Ngirici and her Murang’a counterpart Sabina Chege, Senator Charles Kibiru and a contingent of members of Parliament. However, only the Deputy President addressed the residents. DP Ruto warned that internal divisions were hurting Jubilee’s Big Four agenda and urged the leaders to shelf politics and focus on delivering promises made to the people during the campaign period.   DP Ruto's speech at Kerugoya interrupted by anti-Waiguru chants.