Hugs, handshakes and tears of joy flowed freely as Nairobi West Prison Thursday opened its doors to families and relatives to visit inmates during its open day. The hard prison life was put aside as the inmates mingled freely with their relatives whom they had not seen for a long period with the usually quiet prison turning into a beehive of activities as hundreds of people took their time to catch up on what has been going on within and without the jail walls as they took advantage of a day that comes once every four months. Suleiman Muriungi was an elated man as he freely chatted with his family members who had come to visit him for the first time since he was convicted more than four years ago for attempted defilement. Mr Muriungi was arrested in August 2013 in Karen where he was working, just months after leaving his rural home in Meru, and later sentenced to ten years in jail for having a relationship with a minor, a secondary school girl who at the time was in Form Three.   WHEREABOUTS UNKNOWN His family did not know about his whereabouts until last Sunday when they got wind of where their son was through his older brother Nuru Kithinji. The family also got to know about the prison’s open day. It was one of the best days in their lives. “I feel very happy to see my relatives here. It has been long and painful years living behind these walls without having anyone coming to see me,” said an almost teary Muriungi. Three metres away from the excited family is another one of a young father – his seven-month-old daughter and his wife. John Baraka (not his real name) was happy to see his young family with him as he took time to play with his daughter who was born while he was in prison after he was jailed for 10 years for rape, an offence he still denies committing arguing that the victim had been his girlfriend for more than a year. “It is hard to be away from your family for a crime you did not commit. I pray every day for God to intervene and ensure justice is served. Nonetheless, I am happy to see my wife and daughter and share some family moments with them,” said Mr Baraka.   NO VISITORS But as Baraka and Muriungi enjoyed having their loved ones with them, American citizen John Bishop sat pensively staring at the entrance of the prison as he waited for a family member to appear at the gate as the clock ticked and the end of the open day approached. The 62-year-old man was sentenced to 13 years in prison in 2007 for drug trafficking and since then none of his relatives has ever visited. “I am waiting here just like some of us who have not had any visitor today. I know nobody will come but you know miracles do happen. I have received few emails since I was sentenced and a few phone calls here and there,” said Mr Bishop, a missionary doctor. Mr Peter Njoroge, the officer in charge of the prison, said they hold an open day for the 500 inmates three times in a year so as to make sure that the inmates do not lose touch with their families and the society. “This day gives the inmates an extended time to engage and make contact with their families and relatives of all ages as opposed to other visiting days where they only have 20 minutes or so, and only those above the age of eighteen are allowed,” said Mr Njoroge.  