It is hardly spoken about. Its victims are left reeling from the trauma and violation alone and sometimes in condemnation. Unlike popular assumptions, date rape does not only include sexual violation by a stranger; it can also be perpetrated by a boyfriend with whom a victim has had previous mutually agreed sexual contact. HOW IT OCCURS Dr Karlyn McBride, the author of Will I Ever Be Good Enough? says that most cases of rape during a date will hardly involve violence. “We see less violence in date rape and more psychological coercion or coercion with drinks such as alcohol,” she says. A rapist will either spike your drink during a date or psychologically coerce you into sexual intercourse against your will. When luring a victim with drinks, a date rapist will try to get you intoxicated by urging you to try out alcoholic drinks even though you don’t take alcohol or have never indulged with alcoholic drinks. SPIKING DRINKS There are pharmaceutical drugs that are closely associated with incidents of rape. Dr John P Cunha, a medical author at the medical research journal Medicine Net, says that these drugs include rohypnol, ketamine – popularly known as Special K – and GHB, which is commonly referred to as the liquid ecstasy and passed along as an energy drink. He cautions that such drugs may come as tablets, liquid or even powder. “They’ll affect the victim very fast and will make the victim weak, confused, and out of control. They can also cause loss of consciousness,” he says. THE RED FLAGS Although a rapist will hardly portray his intentions, there will always be some red flags. For example, Me Ra, the author of Beauty Restored: Finding Life and Hope After Date Rape, says that a potential rapist may start off by getting too physically close. “He’ll ignore physical boundaries and may start placing his hand on your thigh or other places that make you uncomfortable,” she says. If you sternly ask him to stop, he may get hostile or start coercing you to stop being so uptight. THE STIGMA AND TRAUMA When date rape has occurred, it is likely that the victim will not report being violated to either the authorities or even close friends. Patrick Musau, a psychologist based in Nairobi says this is because many victims fear that no one will really take them seriously. “There’s a myth that sex is part of the recipe during a night out. People assume it must occur at some point within dates,” he says. “As a result, a victim will be laughed out of town with a casual ‘what did you expect?’ dismissal if she says she was coerced or spiked to have sex against her will.” This is echoed by Dr McBride. She says that the trauma that follows rape during a date may cause the victim to blame herself for being involved with the perpetrator in the first place. “Date rapists will try to turn the tables and throw blame and accusations on the victim. They’re hardly take accountability,” she says.   