Victims of sexual assault will be given free emergency treatment in a move meant to prevent infections and save lives. In a policy statement released on Monday, the Ministry of Health argues that this treatment, which includes free emergency contraceptives, will also prevent unintended pregnancies. Director of Medical Services Jackson Kioko directed all county health officials to ensure that emergency contraception is available all the time in all departments where services are provided to sexual assault victims. “All county and sub-county health management teams to assist health facilities to strengthen the job capacity building sessions through continuing medical education,” Dr Kioko said. CONTRACEPTIVESHe said the sessions will serve as useful forums for staff to get updates on various topics of interest to them, including sharing information on the best medical management for survivors. “For purposes of accountability and effective coordination, all the departments that provide services to survivors of sexual violence are required to follow the existing procedures for dispensing and accounting for the commodities,” he said. The government has traditionally subsidised emergency contraceptives, capping prices for the popular pill at Sh150, as well as providing free condoms in public health centres. However, observers say this only serves people who willingly engage in sex but decide to prevent the aftermath, leaving out people forced into it. PUBLIC HEALTHDr Kioko admitted that limited access to emergency contraception at night, after office hours and during weekends, has been cited as a challenge to sexual violence survivors. “Sexual violence is a serious public health problem and a human rights concern globally and has adverse physical and psycho-social consequences hence the urgent need to address the challenges with a view to making services available to survivors,” he said. The policy to provide more of contraceptives to health centres involved in treating sexual assault victims means that the government must provide more funding to ensure adequate supply. Most government hospitals are supplied with drugs from the Kenya Medical Supplies Agency. But some run out, often due to delayed payments by county governments that manage these facilities. Limited availability of emergency contraception to survivors of sexual violence has been a big challenge.  