Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga on Thursday nominated a technocrat, Ms Caroline Wanjiru Karugu, as his deputy governor ending months of speculation. The County Assembly Deputy Speaker Samuel Kariuki communicated to the ward representatives that the governor had settled on an assistant and sent her name to the Committee on Appointment. BACKGROUND Ms Karugu, who was recently picked by President Uhuru Kenyatta as an independent non-executive director of the Geothermal Development Company board, was one of the late Dr Wahome Gakuru's campaign advisors. Nominated MCA Julia Mukami described her as an administrator and a hardworking woman. She holds a Bachelors of Commerce from Daystar University and a Global Executive MBA (Strategy) from USIU-A in partnership with the Frankfurt School of Finance in Germany. Currently, she is a candidate for a Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) degree in Finance at USIU-A in collaboration with the Columbia Business School in New York. Ms Caroline Karugu is also the chief executive officer of Jabali Microserve Ltd, a commercial subsidiary of Jitegemee Trust. In 2010, she won the prestigious World Young Credit Union Professionals award sponsored by the World Council of Credit Unions (WOCCU) in the United States. She has also worked at the Nairobi Stock Exchange as the pioneering country manager of the Securities Industry Training Institute and later moved to the East African Stock Exchanges Association. COMPETITORS During an interview on Citizen TV on Wednesday, the governor indicated that his deputy would be a ‘shocker’ insisting that it would not be any of the expected front-runners. Among those who were eyeing the seat are former governor Samuel Wamathai, Athi Water Services Board Chairman Wachira Keen and former Woman Rep Priscilla Nyokabi. “It will not be any of the people you’ve heard being mentioned,” he said. Members of the late Dr Gakuru’s secretariat were fronting Dr Stephen Gachie from Mukurwe-ini to deputise Mr Kahiga, a former teacher-turned-politician. Dr Gachie is a consultant with StreetWise Marketing and Communications Ltd and his experience, spanning 14 years 14 years in senior management, was his main selling point. Several members of the County Assembly had campaigned for him, insisting that he was the best bet to drive the Dr Gakuru’s vision.  