When President Uhuru Kenyatta was sworn into office for his second and final term last year, he identified manufacturing, affordable housing, universal healthcare and enhanced food security as the four pillars for catalysing economic development over the next five years. Dubbed the ‘Big Four’ agenda, this plan is poised to improve the livelihoods of Kenyans. Looking critically at it, it’s clear that the manufacturing sector and increasing the stock of affordable housing are twin efforts that can lessen the acute job shortage, especially amongst the youth, if implemented in the right way. Under the affordable housing pillar, which targets construction of 500,000 units over the next five years, there is a big opportunity to create jobs, both directly and indirectly, while supporting the manufacturing agenda. DIRECT JOBS On average, a house creates at least 15 direct jobs — from porters to painters, plumbers and electricians. Indirectly, there are more jobs created for transporters, loaders and distributors of housing materials. Conservatively, if the houses are put up at the rate of 100,000 units per year, this endeavour will create 1.5 million jobs and offer employment to thousands of students who graduate from our technical and vocational training institutes. Additionally, to roll out a housing project of this magnitude will require massive amounts of construction material — cement, steel, paints, pipes and many others — a boon for the manufacturers. PRODUCTION A ready and available market will directly increase jobs as factories ramp up production. Indirectly, jobs will be created from increased consumption of inputs and jobs that are created along the distribution chain. However, the government has to put in place certain measures that will ensure that we do not create jobs on one hand and export jobs on the other. Exporting jobs can happen if we allow the unbridled importation of inputs, especially in cases where there are local companies that can produce the same goods at a higher quality. The paint industry, for example, should be protected through local content laws that would compel international construction companies to use Kenyan-made paints in cases where these products meet the required technological standards. GREEN INITIATIVES Additionally, the use of lead- and chrome-free paints that are environmentally friendly should be enforced and regulated by the government to promote green initiatives across the country and prevent Kenya from becoming a dumping ground for substandard and poisonous goods. Strict enforcement of quality would also ensure local factories are not at the mercy of counterfeits, which are killing the source of livelihood for millions of people and reversing our economic gains. For consumers, the National Treasury should relook at levies and taxes charged on housing materials. CAPPING VAT The government should lend a hand in supporting these initiatives by reducing the cost of doing business by capping Value Added Tax at 10 per cent for between three and five years to give consumers a reprieve while enabling the construction sector to flourish. Another issue the Exchequer should address to spur growth of the manufacturing sector, particularly the paint industry, is the VAT levied on kerosene, which, in the long run, impacts the bottom-line of the sector. Such bottlenecks need to be addressed with priority. If such initiatives are encouraged by all stakeholders, then the country will be in the right direction with regards to economic development and self-sustenance. BLOSSOM The manufacturing and housing sectors will blossom to their potential and, by extension, enable the government to realise two of the Big Four pillars. Done right, the manufacturing and affordable housing pillars are set to become the silver bullets for the acute unemployment facing Kenya. On a separate note, as the government technocrats and policy makers begin drafting the Big Four blueprint, it is worth noting that the country has made some headway towards improving infrastructure, which is necessary to make it a 24-hour economy. Projects such as the standard gauge railway (SGR) are reducing the cost of transportation while increased power connectivity gives rise to 24 extended trading hours across the country. Mr Rao is the Group CEO, Crown Paints Plc. info@crownpaints.co.ke  