Kenyan men volleyball champions General Service Unit and Kenya Prisons are scheduled to face Egyptian teams Al Ahly and Elguish respectively on Monday at Ahly Hall in Egypt in the quarterfinals of the 2018 men's African Club Championship. Both teams have a mountain to climb, as Al Ahly and Elguish are revered as the strongest teams in the competition, and will both enjoy home advantage in the matches. The duo is also unbeaten in their five matches so far in this competition. Yet GSU, who lost to Elguish in the final group match on Saturday evening to record their first defeat of the tournament, have just returned to the continental competition after missing out last year in Tunisia, and had set their sights on the tournament’s semi-finals. Coach Gideon Tarus told Nation Sport on Sunday that this remains their target, and they will do everything it takes to ensure they go past defending champions Al Ahly. “We haven’t come this far for nothing. We’ve qualified to be in the quarters so that means that we are just as good as the other seven teams in this stage," Tarus said. “It is a tough battle but it is tough on all teams. So the best thing to do is to make sure our blocks and services are good so that we can wear them out early and increase our chances of winning,” Tarus said on phone from Cairo. GSU’s best performance came in 1995 in Benin when they clinched the bronze medal. They wound up 17th in their last appearance in 2016 in this prestigious continental competition which has been dominated by North African teams for the last two decades. To get to this stage, GSU beat Port of Cameroon, Algeria’s Olympique, Kampala Amateurs of Uganda and Ethiopia’s Wollaitta before succumbing to a 3-1 defeat to Egypt’s Elguish. Prisons on the other hand beat Redskins of Lesotho, Congo’s Espoire, Police of Cote d’Ivoire and Uganda’s Nemostars in their group matches, but lost 3-0 to Al Ahly on Thursday. The men’s tournament comes just a week after the women’s edition which was played at the same venue, where hosts Al Ahly reclaimed their title after trouncing Carthage of Tunisia by straight sets. Kenya Pipeline finished third after edging domestic rivals Kenya Prisons in the third place playoffs.   GSU were scheduled to play hosts Elguesh.