There is, in every religious system, something that may strongly attract even a human being as powerfully skeptical as I have been throughout my adult life. Every time I give it some thought — which is every day — I am powerfully converted into aspects of Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, Red-Indianism, Zoroastrianism and other confessional systems. In other words, for those inclined towards it, God is capable of everything. If you are inclined that way, it may act as a strong basis from which to begin one’s surrender. Yet that statement may be contradictory. There is, say, the powerfully prejudicing gender question. Why is it that, in religion, the Semito-Caucasian world has imposed on all humanity a God who is overwhelmingly chauvinistic in gender terms? MALE FIGURE Why does the human world so readily accept a world order which so powerfully reduces the creator to such a strongly sexist igloo of thought? For one thing only, this seems to me to be the very basis of the unacceptable fact that, in the form in which certain European tribes have imposed God on non-Caucasian human beings the whole world over — especially on black Africans — God has decidedly been a Euro-Caucasian male figure both in essence and even in physical outlook. A deity who means well to all its human creations should never allow itself to be depicted in the human mind and preached among human beings as the source of all the tragic inter-ethnic, inter-gender, inter-racial and inter-sectarian hostilities and slaughters that human beings have perpetrated in the deity’s name ever since the human mind surrendered to him. RACISM No, malicious racist consciousness might not be the root of all the nastiness that human beings have perpetrated against one another ever since the mythical Adam and Eve. The fact remains, nevertheless, that the Judaeo-Christian religion was imposed on black human beings with a great deal both of Europe’s racial arrogance and of the same male gender conceit that has characterised the human species ever since we appeared on this planet. Yet that answer to the question immediately raises an even more difficult poser. Why doesn’t God make himself more concretely manifest to human senses? Why hasn’t any human being ever smelled God, tasted God, touched God and experienced him by any of mankind’s only recognised organs of sensation and knowledge?  That question immediately raises another one which is impossible to answer adequately in terms of our present human awareness, capabilities and depth of compassion. In his present form, God is too mired in racial, gender and ethnic prejudices to serve fully as the heavenly ideal of universal human goodness to one another. DO DAMAGE Whenever the news hits my ears and my eyes concerning any of the myriad of horribly nasty things that human individuals, genders, nations, races, religions, sects and tribes do to one another the whole world over, it  deepens my conviction that, mentally speaking, by creating humanity in his own image, God did not do such a wonderful job. Whenever you assert— as all our priests do — that God created human beings in his own image, you raise a question mark in my head that, as far as I know, no human being has ever answered in a wholly convincing manner. Do you call “people of God” the vast majority of those churchgoers who, outside the church, acquire wealth by means that do a great deal of damage to the mental and physical wellbeing of their victims? They go to church or pagoda or some other “house of God” once a day or so many times a week only to come out of it to rob an ageing and helpless woman of all her savings — her only means of survival. If this is the example in which God helps those who help themselves, then two cheers for all his followers.  