The company I work for is mostly made up of young people, though majority of our bosses are above 40 years. One of my colleagues, who is in her mid-twenties, has been having an ill-concealed affair with our immediate boss. As a result, she gets the bulk of trips in and out of the country, and gets to choose assignments. This has been bad for morale. How does one keep their enthusiasm up in such a situation?  The situation you describe has everything to do with integrity. Given the diversity and daily interactions of like-minded colleagues at the workplace, naturally, employees are bound to get attracted to one another. There is absolutely nothing wrong with this, however, when intimate relationships affect work or border on sexual harassment, employers must safeguard their employees by providing policies and guidelines on what constitutes acceptable behaviour. Whereas colleagues may not mind relationships between single colleagues, there are some associations that many find repulsive. Any relationships between colleagues who are married is considered wrong, as it puts the integrity of those involved into question. This creates trust issues between them and their colleagues and can easily lead to lack of respect, especially towards those who have authority over others. Equally so, any relationships between colleagues with direct supervisory accountability are unacceptable, due to situations such as the one you describe. The relationship is likely to influence decisions in favour of the colleague having an affair with the boss, even when it is not deserved, causing unnecessary friction within the team, which obviously will affect performance. It may as well be a case of harassment given the power dynamics. To deal with your situation, check what the policy on such conduct says and apply it. If such a policy does not exist, speak to your HR manager or a senior colleague and demonstrate how the relationship is favourable to one party and denying you and your colleagues the exposure and support you need to be effective in your work. That said, the workplace remains a fertile ground for relationships that could lead to marriage, and employers must provide clear guidelines of acceptable conduct to encourage appropriate and healthy relationships.   Before you succumb to feeling helpless, remember that you always have options.