The recent flooding menace may left Kenyans wondering whether to have a love-hate relationship with rain in this country. But we all know that rain is really not the problem because when it’s scarce we passionately call for it. When it’s in abundance, however, we seem to be overwhelmed by it! Scenes of bridges being washed away, buildings collapsing, people dying and cars sinking in the middle of known roads should awaken us to the fact that we are at a war with nature and it’s about time we subdued it! PROBLEMBut this could take us awhile — not because it is insurmountable, or we do not have the machinery to do it, but due to our culture of tolerance. We tend to tolerate and bear the weight of mediocrity; we accept weak and broken systems. Somehow, we have not reconciled the fact that these broken systems are not separate from us; they are us! We sweep them away through cheap blame games and public attitudes towards incompetence, non-performance and corruption, reinforcing the ideology that they are ‘good enemies’ that we can accommodate to an extent. But these are not enemies anymore; they are becoming part of us. We have been cloned to resemble the enemy; it has become part of our cultural identity. RECOGNITION When we clog a river with waste and litter an entire city, that’s who we are. When we build sub-standard roads and bridges and cheat housing regulations, that’s who we are. It is emblematic of our culture of tolerance, our unwillingness to pay the ultimate price for excellence, for value and for corporate dignity. It is a culture where we celebrate quantity over quality. We pride ourselves with the price of a tender instead of the pride of the prize of a work well done. We celebrate being overnight landlords but have no regard for the people who make us lords. It’s a culture! CHANGEAnd just like any repressive culture that people refuse to let go of, they ultimately reap off it and begin to manifest its fruits in counter-productive ways. But there is hope. Cultures are developed and reinforced through social learning; that means we can modify behaviours or acquire new ones. The ability to learn is possessed by humans as they interact with diverse environments. That’s why it is important for us to expose ourselves to something different and, therefore, develop an appetite and desire for it, shifting the way we see things. We must invest heavily in the cultural capital of our people — which consists of the social assets of a person — so that we don’t give premium to material assets but social assets. So that people don’t pride themselves in tenders but the intelligence and integrity of their work. So that we don’t just celebrate being a landlord but giving our tenants a dignified habitation. So that we don’t do any foolish thing for our children to score As but passionately go the extra mile for them to get a meaningful education. QUALITYCultural capital is the sure way to promote social mobility. Our children will create wealth and become wealthy not because they got an A but because they got an education. We will become a developed nation not because we built a hundred bridges but because we built a state-of-the-art bridge. It is our cultural capital that confers on us social status and power; it announces who we are. It is symbolic of our intellectual strength, values, identity and dignity. It is a source of our pride; a constant reminder of what we belief in and stand for and who we are. Our ultimate goal is to free ourselves from an obsession with accumulating material assets at the expense of social assets. To understand that social assets are symbolic goods and when a people consider them rare and worth seeking, they will ultimately win! Ms Omukoba, a communications strategist, is a lecturer at Kenyatta University. deckillahomu@gmail.com  