Jubilee Party secretary-general Raphael Tuju has described his role as that of assisting Cabinet Secretaries to deliver on the pledges President Uhuru Kenyatta made to Kenyans in last year’s elections. In his first interview after the first Cabinet sitting in Nairobi on Tuesday, in which he was sworn in as a Cabinet Secretary without portfolio, Mr Tuju said his role would also include being the political voice in the Cabinet, to allow the CSs to focus on their work. “When an issue that should be in the domain of one CS is made political, then it lands right on my desk. It is my role to make the political comments without anybody accusing those particular CSs of engaging in politics,” Mr Tuju, who has been made something of a “prefect” CS, told the Nation. Unlike the nine CSs who joined their 12 colleagues retained from the previous Cabinet, Mr Tuju, who was “co-opted on a need basis” was not vetted by Parliament. The party boss was also sworn in with the rest of the CSs. VETTED “That I do not have a portfolio means I cannot be vetted by Parliament, because, what will they ask? What expertise do I need to run which ministry? I didn’t need that, because you cannot ask me what I will do in such and such a ministry,” said Mr Tuju. He has previously served as the Foreign Affairs, Tourism and Information Minister. However, Mr Tuju had to take an oath on Tuesday. In the execution of their duties, CSs are made to swear not to directly or indirectly reveal State matters and secrets that come to their knowledge by virtue of their positions. “The CSs answer to the President and the Deputy President,” Mr Tuju said, when asked what he would do if a CS deviated from the party line. “But on an issue that they are maybe blind sighted to, my job is to point out that this is not sitting very well, based on the manifesto that we had. We have not reached that point yet, but when we do, I’ll exercise a lot of humility, and courtesy.” ASSISTANCE The idea of having a representative of the ruling party in the Cabinet is a political concept borrowed from the Communist Party of China, the African National Congress (ANC) of South Africa and Chama Cha Mapinduzi (Tanzania). “I sit in the Cabinet to represent the interests of the President’s party. We went around the country promising certain things that we will do, and my role is to ensure that I give whatever assistance to ensure that we are on focus as far as those issues are concerned,” Mr Tuju said.   With only six out of 21 nominees, the question of gender representation is likely to come up during vetting.