A common question people starting a career in information and communications technology (ICT) often ask is, “what course should I study to be certain of a job on graduation?” The answer is, the course depends on you. Pick one that offers things that you like to do and enrol. This answer looks simplistic, right? Ok. Let me explain. The world of ICT is complex and skills fade fast. Broadly, ICT comprise hardware such as computers, mobile phones, networking devices and all other tangible digital equipment that enable us to work in an office or at home. Then there is the software or the programmes that run on the hardware devices. These programmes are the heart and soul of the digital technology. They make efficient the manual and tedious tasks. DIGITAL COMMUNICATIONThen we have digital communication platforms. Communication can be as simple as one computer sending information to a printer, to more complex ones where people in an office work collaboratively sharing computers, phones, printers, scanners and copiers. Digital communication channels connect offices in different buildings or countries to work as if staff is on the same office block or floor. Technology is vulnerable to infiltration by people with nefarious intentions, some of which could cause costly damage. SOFTWARESHundreds of careers stem out of these broad ICT fields. Hardware engineers, for example, ensure that hardware functions optimally. Software developers create programmes that run on hardware and communication devices. These programmes may include process control and management, data management, security management and data communication. As far as there are problems in the world, technology will always exist to help solve them. Those problems are the gateways to the future. PASSIONA career in ICT requires one to commit to life-long learning and adaptation in line with the changing technology. One must be passionate about his career to invest in it for the long haul. Without passion and commitment, the sooner one runs out of steam and throws in the towel. The market is always open to the best of the breed. Find a course that jells well with your talents and study it. Like in all other careers, there will be difficult days but studying something that you are passionate about increases your odds of success. GUIDANCEHere is one more thing. Studying and getting good grades is only the start. To keep the skills evergreen, one needs a coach — just like top athletes invest in coaches to guide them on the journey to the top. It is impossible to maximize one’s potential in any area without a coach. You may be good; you may even be better than anyone else but without an outside input, it is impossible to be as good as you can possibly be. We all do better when someone is watching and evaluating. SUCCESSUnfortunately, the younger we are, the more we think we know, and less likely we are to genuinely place ourselves under the wings of a professional who knows the way, who has walked it and has unpretentious success. Think about it: Every top athlete and athletic team has a coach. In professional positions, however, we operate under the misguided assumption that because we have top degrees and diplomas, we can fly our careers on auto-pilot without a coach. The truth is, our success maybe great, but compared to our God-given potential, we fall short. In the changing world of technology, support and guidance is critical. A coach will not sit back and watch his protégé make the same mistakes over and over again without saying something. A good career and a credible coach make an unbeatable package. The writer is an informatics specialist. samwambugu@gmail.com @samwambugu2  