Mwamba speedster Collins Injera landed a brace of tries as Kenya Sevens stunned New Zealand 21-12 in the semis to reach their second consecutive Cup final at Hong Kong Sevens on Sunday. Kenya will now meet Hong Kong Sevens defending champions Fiji at 2pm on Sunday in what is a repeat of the Canada Sevens final. Fiji became the only side to win two events this season beating Kenya Sevens 29-7 in Canada Sevens final, the sixth leg of the World Rugby Sevens series final. Injera’s brace stretched his tally to 254 tries as Kenya’s other try scorer William “Lomu” Ambaka brought his tally to 104 tries. Fiji, who are also the New Zealand Sevens champions, rallied from 19-5 down at the break to beat Dubai Sevens champions South Africa 26-24 to set up a date with Kenya. The last time Kenya beat Fiji (17-14) was at USA Sevens, the fifth leg of the Series. “It’s absolutely amazing to reach our second Cup final this season. Our journey keeps getting better and better this season,” said Injera, a former World Rugby Sevens Series all-time top try scorer. “We shall overcome Fiji if we get our tactics well. We just need to execute our pan well.” It’s Amanaki Nicole, who gave All Blacks their first try to lead 7-0, before Kenya turned out style with skipper Oscar Ouma putting through Billy “The Kid” Odhiambo. Odhiambo then broke loose to haul a neat pass to Injera on the inside before landing for Samuel Oliech to convert and level 7-7. The Kenyans were polished in their defensive skills to keep All Blacks at bay. Then Injera, once again collected the ball in their 22 metres before side-stepping All Black defenders to go clear for his brace. Oliech added the extras to extend Shujaa's lead to 14-7 at the break. Kenya once again defended well before Ambaka won a turnover in their five metres, before sprinting all the way to land. Oliech was spot on with the boot to stretch Kenya’s lead to 21-7. Jona Nareki would have a scored a thriller but that failed to rescue them from the jaws of defeat. South Africa will now meet New Zealand, the South Africa Sevens champions in the play-off for the bronze medal match. Kenya is chasing its second ever Series victory after they handed Fiji a 30-7 defeat to lift the 2016 Singapore Sevens title.   The East Africans will now meet New Zealand in the semi-finals at 11.03am.