Stadium village popular venue ***** There’s lots to do for fans coming to the Carrara Stadium to follow the athletics action which started on Sunday. One of the main attractions is the fan zone that has unlimited supply of beer, with the main championship brand simply called XXXX! The beer, brewed by the ‘Lion’ company, has unleashed a commemorative ‘XXXX Gold’ brand for these championships along with a ‘Summer Bright Lager. The beers go for eight Australian dollars (Sh602) for a 330ml bottle! Oldest competitor aged 79 ***** They say win gets better with age, and so it also seems for Canadian Robert Pitcairn who is going strong at Gold Coast. He is the oldest competitor here at 79 years and nine months. The full-bore shooter beat the previous record held by England’s Doreen Flanders who competed in bowling at the last games in Glasgow at the age of 78 and 11 months. “I feel honoured to set the new age record and grateful that my health and athleticism made it possible for me to be competitive,” said the former pilot who foiled a hijacker on a Boeing 737 he was flying in 1974 with 74 passengers on board. Fake Ghanaian Journalists busted ***** A lot of attention has been drawn to the 50 deported fake Ghanaian journalists. Authorities here blew the since deported fake scribes’ cover after subjecting them to basic tests on general sports knowledge. The Accra imposters couldn’t answer basic questions such as who is the fastest man on earth, with the name Usain Bolt not even ringing a bell to some of them. The Ghanaian government has launched investigations into the scam, the country’s deputy sports minister Pious Enam Hadzide says. Advertising legal service ***** Unlike in Kenya where it’s outlawed, lawyers here are allowed to advertise their services. And they are using innovative ways, such as through mobile telephone messaging. For instance, after putting a booking through to a taxi company, a message pops up: “Thanks for using Gold Coast Cabs. Your booking ID is 44644114. Big night out gone bad? Contact Potts Lawyers – www.pottslawyer.com.” Interesting.  