Many dairy farmers know about cattle registration, but the adoption of the technology is still low. A recent survey showed that less than 1 per cent of cattle is registered in Nyandarua, yet the area has thousands of cows. Livestock registration is a systematic method of recording and maintaining accurate and authentic ancestral and identification information of livestock with due regard to dates of birth and extended pedigree details. An animal that is not registered can thus be likened to a person without an identification card or a vehicle without a number plate. In all the three situations, traceability is not easy. The Kenya Livestock breeders Organisation (KLBO), through its Kenya Stud Book, is charged with responsibility of livestock registration, cattle included. A number of challenges have stalled cattle registration among the smallholder dairy farmers, who produce about 80 per cent of the milk in the country. These include limited understanding of the benefits of the technology, availability of inspection and registration officers/registration process, the centralised nature of the registering body and level of stakeholder participation. Benefits of cattle registration The technology assists in farm management whereby one can carry out selection and culling of poor performers. Where one has insured the animals, it helps in making claims in case of loss of an animal. The records also facilitate better feeding and breeding regimes all of which lead to increased production and hence improvement in national food security. A pedigree animal that has reached the top of breeding ladder cost a fortune. However, a farmer can own such an animal without necessarily spending a fortune if he registers and upgrades what he has. Registration enhances marketing opportunities as one is allowed to display his animals in breeders’ shows and also the registering office can support in marketing. A farmer whose animals have reached the pedigree level is also utilised by the country’s breeding institution Kenya Animal Genetic Resource Centre (KAGRIC) to produce bulls for semen production through a process referred to as contract mating. At the national level, the country can utilise such records for planning purposes, especially in livestock breeding programmes and if all farmers adopt the technology, the country can use the information as a dairy census. The registration process It all starts with the farmer’s decision to register his herd in which case he contacts a registered inspector who assesses the animals to ensure their identification and ancestry history. The identification can be inform of ear tags, ear notches, and branding. The ancestral history can be achieved from examination of the Artificial Insemination (AI) records if present. If such records are absent, he can use visual examination at least to assign the first two grade levels. The grade ranges are pool, foundation, intermediate, appendix and pedigree, rising in performance in that order. Pool has a resemblance of the breed whereas foundation has most of the features of the breed. The inspector then charges between Sh200 and Sh400 (pool Sh200, foundation Sh250, intermediate Sh300, appendix and pedigree Sh400). An inspector will also charge for his services and then delivers the registration forms and fees to the registering body, which will then produce a certificate of registration and the cash receipt. The farmer will thereafter contact the other organ of KLBO, which is the Dairy Recording Service of Kenya (DRSK) that is charged with responsibility of milk recording and the milk recording will be initiated. Any animal born from the registered animal rises in the grade hierarchy as long as it is registered itself and its breeding records and mothers milk records are produced. The centralised nature of the registering body The registering body is located in Nakuru County. The distance between the farmers and the institution has been sorted out through use of a digital registration platform. After registration, the certificates and some milk samples have to be delivered by hand or courier. Stakeholder participation From the narrative, it is obvious that the exercise is unaffordable to individual stallholder dairy farmers. However, common interest groups and milk collecting cooperatives can pool resources and establish schemes that will involve its members. One small such project saw a farmer sell his heifers at Sh150,000 from Sh70,000 and by the time he reaches the pedigree status, the animals will not cost less than Sh250,000. rivavet@yahoo.com   Go for the best dairy animals. Reputable farms have their animals registered with the Kenya Stud Book