Britam has launched a Sh1,000 phone-based investment and life insurance product dubbed Imarika Investment Plan which targets low-income earners. Customers are required to save a minimum of Sh1,000 daily, weekly or monthly and get life insurance cover of Sh50,000 plus returns on their investments. The insurer says it is guaranteeing a minimum return of five per cent, adding that it expects the actual performance to range from eight to 12 per cent. Britam’s target returns are higher than the average rate on commercial banks’ savings accounts, mostly held by individuals, which stood at 6.2 per cent last year, according to Central Bank of Kenya data. “We’re targeting low-income earners in the formal and informal sector, families, young people as well as common interest groups (chamas) who can save their money for a specified period of time,” said Britam chief executive Benson Wairegi. The minimum investment period in Imarika is five years and clients can elect to invest for up to 20 years. READ: SMEP banks on campaign to raise client base, savings The product shields investors from the 15 per cent tax on interest, with those taking a policy of 10 years or longer eligible to apply for tax relief. Partial withdrawals of up to 30 per cent of the fund value can be made after three years at no cost. Mr Wairegi said Britam conducted a research, which established demand among tech-savvy Kenyans for a product combining insurance and investments over shorter periods of time. Insurers are increasingly devising insurance and investment products that can be rolled out through mobile platforms to rope in new customers, especially low-income households. Use of technology is also expected to cut various costs for insurers including distribution and premium collection. Insurance penetration in Kenya stands at less than five per cent against a global average of more than six per cent. Funds raised under Imarika will be invested in various asset classes such as treasuries, real estate and listed equities.  