The High Court has stopped implementation of a Kiambu County law that paves way for merger of nine water companies pending hearing and determination of suit against the dissolution. Thika residents and various stakeholders filed the suit seeking to halt the formation of envisaged Kiambu County Water and Sewerage Company Limited until their concerns are addressed. The Kiambu Water and Sanitation (Amendment) Act 2018 allowed the dissolution of Thika, Kikuyu, Ruiru, Gatundu, Kiambu, Limuru, Githunguri, Karuri and Juja water companies for the formation of one umbrella firm. ​The suit filed by former Transition Authority chairman Kinuthia Wamwangi, Thika District Business Association, and Jamhuri Ofafa Starehe Welfare Association members on behalf of all water users in Thika, want to stop the dissolution of Thika Water and Sewerage Company. SHARING The groups argue that the move will put a strain on the firm's water supply to the town since it will share its water with the other sub counties in Kiambu. Currently THIWASCO produces 36 million litres daily against the current demand of 54 million litres of water per day, a shortfall the firm was trying to meet through donor funding The petitioners claimed that the county government did not conduct public participation before embarking on the move that they fear could cripple food industries once they start facing extended water shortages due to strained resources. In his supporting affidavit, Mr Mwangi argues that the merger of the water companies robs water users in Thika the enjoyment of the tenets of devolution which are to bring key services closer to the people. "I can authoritatively say that [this] action offends devolution as described in the petition," read his affidavit in part. But Governor Ferdinand Waititu's administration insists that the merger is aimed at promoting equity in the provision of water services within the county. "The company's headquarters will be in Kiambu town, while the offices of the eight water companies will be converted into regional offices for effective service delivery," said Kiambu Water Chief Officer John Muhia. The umbrella company was to be unveiled on Friday.  