Homeboyz proved why they are the kings of Great Rift 10-a-side when they successfully defended the title after whitewashing Mwamba 28-0 in the final at Nakuru Athletics Club on Sunday. The Deejays, who dominated the two days rugby extravaganza, led 19-0 at the interval. Their tries came via Mark Wandeto, Johnston Olindi (two tries) and Leonard Mugaisi while Mohammed Omollo booted in all the conversions.   Homeboyz demolished Menengai Oil 29-5 in the semi-finals. Wandeto scored two tries while the rest of the touch downs were provided by Richard Alai, Bush Mwale and Leonard Mugaisi. The reliable boot of Omollo duly made two conversions.   Menengai Oil scored their consolation try through Anthony Kibet. In the second Cup semi-finals Mwamba were made to fight every inch of their way before beating Kabras Sugar 17-12. The Black Shirts needed extra time after the two sides were deadlocked 12-12 in regulation time. Mwamba converted their tries through Lucas Obonyo, Eliakim Lichoyi while the deciding score was buried by Kevin Atandi who had earlier made the only conversion for the black shirts. The sugar men scored their tries via Teddy Omondi and Saidi Osieko while Dominic Osinyo slotted home the conversion. SENT PACKING Earlier in the Cup quarter-finals Homeboyz sent hosts Nakuru aka “Wanyore” packing 25-5, Menengai Oilers edged out surprise package Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology 5-3. Kenya Harlequin bowed out of the Cup competition after going down 0-19 to Mwamba in the quarters while Kabras Sugar licked Kenyatta university Blak Blad 19-12 in the last last eight encounter. In the Challenge Cup final, Impala carried the day when they thrashed Nondies 10-0 with Mark Kemboi playing the chief destroyer as he scored and converted his try before deciding matters with a penalty. In reaching the Challenge Cup finals Impala crushed Strathmore Leos 21-0 in the first semis while Nondies raided Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) before registering a slim 12-10 win. In the Plate finals Kenya Harlequin made sure they grabbed a trophy when they overwhelmed a depleted Nakuru 15-7. Earlier in the plate semi-finals, Nakuru outplayed Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology 21-5. The varsity lads from western Kenya had surprised many by upsetting giants KCB to book a Cup quarter-final berth. Kenya Harlequins, who are going through lean times considering their rich, trophy-laden past worked hard to dispatch Blak Blad 14-5.  