Two rugby players on Monday appeared in court to answer to charges of the alleged rape of a local musician. Lawrence Frank Wanyama and Alex Mahaga Olaba are accused of gang raping a woman identified as W.A on February 11 this year at Seefa apartment in Highrise Nairobi, according to the charge sheet. The duo however denied the charges and were released on a cash bail of Sh500,000 each. The hearing has been set for May 16. The Kenya Harlequin players were indicted after investigations by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations. The detectives relied on DNA examinations as well as the suspects’ and complainant’s statement, to assemble the case before Haji gave the green light to take the matter to court. The investigations started on February 11, when a female singer reported to police that she was gang-raped in Highrise estate, Nairobi. Six witnesses recorded statements and further examination in hospital established that the complaint is pregnant. Besides examining the suspects and the complainant for DNA, detectives also wrote to the chief executive officer of Nairobi south hospital requesting for a medical report. The complainant, in her statement, told police she was attended to by medics at the facility. The singer was first to make the ordeal known to public by posting details on her Instagram page. She claimed that she was raped overnight on her birthday, February 10. The singer, in a series of Insta stories, revealed that she became pregnant after the ordeal. She said one of the rugby players, who also plays for the Kenya Sevens team, had threatened to sue if she went public. The singer went on to claim that one of the players lured her to his home after a night out. Screenshots of her ordeal were shared online as users called for the arrest and charging of the rugby players. Twitter users launched a campaign to exert pressure on authorities to act swiftly. The Kenya Rugby Union issued a statement saying that it does not condone sexual harassment and that it would await the outcome of police investigations. “The matter will be reviewed as soon as practicable by the KRU, in line with existing procedures for all contracted players. KRU wishes to state that it does not condone sexual harassment or any other activity that goes against the spirit of World Rugby Regulation 20 and remains committed to continued respect, empowerment and increased participation of women in all aspects of the sport of rugby,” the statement read in part. Quins chairman Mike Lucas said: “A formal complaint has been lodged and the relevant authorities are investigating the matter.” He added: “As one of Kenya’s oldest and respected rugby clubs, we abide by a strict code of conduct that binds all players and officials of the club.” Lucas said the club has zero tolerance policy on any form of sexual harassment.   Detectives relied on DNA examinations as well as the suspects’ and complainant’s statement.