Mombasa is heading for a  serious solid-waste management crisis, with the impending closure of the Kibarani dumpsite. Speaking when he launched 12 new garbage collection trucks on  Friday last week, Governor Hassan Joho ordered the dumpsite closed within 70 days. “I want that dumpsite closed by the end of June. No more dumping of waste in Kibarani. Let it remain a road when people go to the airport…Create alternatives such as collecting garbage from households,” Mr Joho ordered his county executives. LOWEST POINT Kenya Tourism Federation Chairman Mohamed Hersi immediately praised the move, saying Kibarani was the county’s lowest point. The dumpsite, located on the Mombasa-Nairobi Highway, has earned the governor criticism from different quarters, notably tourism. It is an eyesore, and the  garbage has also been spilling over into the Indian Ocean, causing pollution. Garbage collection has been Mr Joho’s biggest headache. His government has been blamed for the frequent outbreaks of diseases in Mombasa. GARBAGE The town is dirty, with mounds of uncollected garbage, making it vulnerable to outbreaks of diseases such as chikungunya and dengue fever. The Kibarani dumpsite, which employs  more than 1,000 youths, women and children, will be relocated to Mwakirunge in June. But there is already a problem because the site, which is about 20 kilometres from Mombasa town,  is on a flight path. According to the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority (KCAA), a dumpsite should be at least 13 kilometres away from a  flight path.  But Mwakirunge is 12.9 kilometres away. FLIGHT PATH “The main issue is take-off and landing. We don’t like having dumpsites on our flight paths since  it is  dangerous because of the birds the scavenge at the dumpsite,” a KCAA official told the Nation on condition of anonymity. Moi International Airport manager Walter Agong  also told  the Nation that he has voiced concern about  Mwakirunge. “The dumpsite is on a flight path and it is a track path. We  advised the county government to conduct a full aeronautical study and  then give us the report to approve or disapprove. What we are waiting for is the study, but we have raised concerns regarding the dumpsite,” Mr Agong said. The  National Environment Management Authority County Director, Mr Stephen Wambua, said he will consult with the county over the “crucial” matter, adding that  there is a procedure for decommissioning dumpsites. With the closure of Kibarani and opposition to Mwakirunge, the garbage problem in the county is only likely to get worse. CHALLENGES On Friday, county executives, including Environment Executive  Dr Godffrey Nato, said there have been challenges with the collection and transportation of solid waste. “Approximately 45 per cent of the waste generated doesn’t get to the designated dumpsites in Kibarani, Shonda in Likoni ,and Mwakirunge in the North coast. Most people use inefficient means, which leave the entire Kibarani Road and railway line littered,” he said. Dr Nato said the fleet launched by Governor Joho will solve the transportation problem . “The 20-tonne capacity trucks, will carry an average of 100 tonnes per day for five trips, and they will cumulatively be able to move 1,200 tonnes of garbage from the island  a day,” Dr Nato said. When Mr Joho delivered his first speech at the county Assembly, he promised to implement an integrated solid-waste management plan to clear garbage in the coastal town, but there is little to show for it. TOURISM In January, Mr Joho said the county was  contemplating charging residents for garbage collection. Meanwhile, the county has  accused 2,800 garbage collectors of dumping garbage “anywhere”. But while the closure of the largest dumpsite will be a blessing to Mombasa residents and tourism players, it will affect some people negatively. Yesterday the Nation found, Fatuma Bakari, 53, scavenging at the dumpsite. She is among the many people who  look  there for  plastic bottles, boxes, small accessories and scrap metal for recycling. She said she will relocate to Mwakirunge if it is opened.   The dumpsite is an eyesore for both tourists and local residents.