The battle for supremacy between Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu and Mwingi Central MP Gideon Mulyungi has intensified. This comes a day after youths from Mwingi disrupted an event at Mwingi town's Musila Gardens, where the governor was set to launch training for boda boda riders, forcing her to postpone the event. A group of rowdy youths on Wednesday heckled leaders who had accompanied the governor to the event. The youths accused the leaders of being Jubilee Party ‘moles’. They claimed the leaders were President Uhuru Kenyatta’s chief agents during the October 26, 2017 repeat presidential elections. It took the intervention of the police to calm the crowd before Ms Ngilu postponed the event. There are reports that Dr Mulyungi might be seeking to unseat the governor in the 2011 polls. PERMISSION Ms Ngilu, however said that she was not obliged to seek a permit from anyone when presiding over public events in any part of the county. “As the governor of this county, I can visit any part of Kitui County without seeking permission from anyone. Those who think they can threaten me should know that I’ve been in this game for too long,” said Ms Ngilu. On Saturday, the legislator, who held a rally at Mwingi town’s Musila Gardens, warned Wiper Party to be cautious when dealing with governor Ngilu. Dr Mulyungi claimed that Ms Ngilu had never cut ties with Jubilee Party. Dr Mulyungi claimed that even after the governor had promised to support Wiper Party for the sake of Kamba unity, she had continued to associate with 'key allies' of President Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto. KAMBA UNITY Dr Mulyungi said: “All leaders from Ukambani met at Koma in Machakos County and we agreed to work together. Governor Ngilu also pledged to support our initiative as Wiper Party, why would she tour my constituency in the company of Jubilee allies?” The legislator also blamed the governor for not inviting him when launching key projects in his constituency. “I have a lot of respect for our governor, but why would she choose not to invite me to her event in my constituency?” asked the MP. He warned Ms Ngilu not to set a foot in his constituency without informing him. “Those people who think they can just come to my constituency without inviting me should know that my constituents won’t allow it,” he said.   Youths on motorbikes pelt UhuRuto caravan with stones in Mwingi.