Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) are determined to reclaim their rightful place in women’s volleyball both locally and in the continent. KCB, who last won the local league title in 2009 and Africa title in 2006, have warned their rivals especially Kenya Pipeline and Kenya Prisons to expect a "tough season." “I believe we have the capacity to win the league this season and make a return to the continental scene not by invite but by beating our opponents,” said KCB team manager Moses Kimani on Wednesday. KCB last participated in the Africa Club Championships in 2014 but failed to reach the podium. KCB's best show in the event was in 2009 where they settled for silver before wining bronze the following year. Kimani was speaking at a ceremony where their sponsors KCB feted the team after winning the Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) season opening Bungoma Open last weekend. KCB defeated Kenya Defence Forces 3-0 (27-25,25-14,25-18) in the final to lift the Bungoma Open trophy late last month, two days after defeating Directorate of Criminal Investigation (DCI) 3-0 (25-19, 25-16, 25-21) in a league match. “We don’t want invites…we want to fight for our place by finishing in top two positions in the league,” said Kimani. “We want the title and the worst we can do is finish second.” LAUDED THE TEAM KCB head of corporate and regulatory affairs Judith Sidi Odhiambo lauded the team on their great performance saying that the bank is committed to supporting the ladies as they set their sight on the 2019 Africa Club Championship. “As KCB Group, we are delighted with your performance this season, the task ahead is winning the remaining outings this year,” said Sidi, who handed over Sh150,000 to the team. The ceremony was attended by by KCB board director Njeri Onyango, who is a former KCB and national volleyball player. Other former players in attendance were Rose Wanjala, Ann Wahombe and Dorcas Tidi. KCB have boosted their ranks with new players including left attackers Egline Kulova and Metrine Wabwile, Right attackers Nancy Mulonza and Lucy Mumo and two Libero’s - Lincy Jeruto and Millicent Wanjala.   Khayinga was purring after the victory.