The compensation due to the family of multiparty hero Kenneth Matiba is almost clocking Sh2 billion as the award continues to attract interest. In an order filed in court, the amount he was awarded last year by the High Court now stands at Sh1, 855,550,147. DAMAGES The former minister was awarded Sh978 million as special and general damages while interests on damages now stands at Sh737,363,941. Interest on general damages is Sh1.4 million while cost of the suit, which was taxed in February by the Deputy Registrar on February 1, is Sh135,143,893. Justice Isaac Lenaola had awarded Mr Matiba, whose memorial service was held in Nairobi on Wednesday, the amount plus costs of filing the suit. Interest on the costs since the date of the ruling now stands at Sh3 million. Last week, senators were united in urging the state to immediately release Mr Matiba’s compensation. The senators also urged the government to offer a public apology to the family. Senate Minority Leader James Orengo and Minority Whip Mutula Kilonzo Junior eulogised the fallen politician, saying his efforts should not be forgotten. INTEREST “Having an apology to the family will be worth billions of shillings for the compensation for the injustices committed against him,” Mr Orengo, who was also part of the Second Liberation movement alongside Mr Matiba, said. Busia Senator Amos Wako, who served as Attorney-General until 2010, challenged the state to immediately release the compensation awarded to Mr Matiba by the court. When contacted, lawyer John Mburu said the family was yet to be paid. While awarding him last year, Justice Lenaola, now a Supreme Court Judge, also agreed with Mr Mburu that the multiparty hero was the founder, leader and the motivator behind the success of his companies and his detention and ill treatment affected his business empire. “It is, therefore, my finding that the petitioner’s medical condition triggered by the events in detention leading to his stroke so greatly affected the business acumen, attention, focus, energy, guidance and leadership he was giving his companies that without him at the helm, they deteriorated and some eventually collapsed,” the judge said. According to the judge, Mr Matiba’s deteriorating health can be traced to his detention following his arrest in July 1990 for agitating for Kenya’s return to multiparty politics. While in detention, Mr Matiba suffered stroke but state officials were not bothered to get him medical attention and remained in that state for a week.   OUR POLITICS WILL FOREVER confound. A whole galaxy of bigwigs from all sides of the Government divide troop to Geneva where they bond quite famously between the conference rooms and the receptions.