Nairobi Region hockey champions Upper Hill stormed into the boys semi-finals after a 2-0 win over Thika High from Central on Day Two of the Brookside Term One Secondary School Games at Kangaru School, Embu County on Wednesday. Two quick goals from Timothy Simiyu and Spencer Yaiko assured last year's finalists a place in tomorrow's last four. Upper Hill had launched their campaign with a 1-0 win over Meru School in their opening match on Tuesday. A buoyant Upper Hill coach Dennis Wekesa said his charges have what it takes to go all the way as they seek a maiden title. "We have achieved our first target and the boys are fired-up and I believe they can go all the way to the final on Saturday," Wekesa said. Champions St Anthony's Kitale drew 1-1 with Meru School in another pool encounter. Rawlings Sikolia gave the defending champions an early lead seconds into the match before Meru equalised four minutes later through Lewis Murimi. MUST-WIN St Anthony's have four points and must win Thursday’s match against Upper Hill to avoid elimination at the preliminary stage. In girls' matches, Bura Girls shocked favourites Tigoi Girls 1-0 in their second pool B match. Matilda Ratemo scored the only goal of the match, a 39th minute field goal. The Coast champions are now on four points after they drew 1-1 with Nyamira Girls in their first match. Nyamira Girls hit Moi Girls Eldoret 2-0 in the other pool B encounter. Betty Nasirumbi and Daughty Panga were the goal scorers. In handball, Moi Girls Kamusinga reached the semi-finals after a narrow 24-23 win over St Joseph Kirandich of Rift Valley, their second win of the competition. Kamusinga had won their opening match 24-11 against Nairobi's New Jogoo Road Girls on Tuesday and now have six points with a match to spare. BOUNCED BACK New Jogoo Road bounced back from their opening day defeat to Kamusinga to beat North Eastern's Kutulo 29-5. In basketball, Eastern region champions Meru School and Ambira High from Nyanza also booked their slots in the last four after winning their second matches in the boys' Pool B. Meru secured a slim 69-68 win over Again Khan Academy as Ambira crushed Wajir Boys 97-21 in pool B matches. In the girls' category, former winners Buru Buru and Loreto are also through to the semi-finals after two wins. Newcomers Butere upset champions Kaya Tiwi 74-65 to seal their place in the last four. In 15s rugby, defending champions Kakamega High School, Nairobi Upper Hill and Menengai stormed into the semis. Upper Hill thrashed hosts Kangaru 61-0, while Kakamega struggled to beat their arch rivals St Mary’s Yala 8-7. Menengai walloped Coast representatives Galana 58-3. The Nairobi Region champions had eased past Galana 64-0 in their first match on Tuesday.   Ndigiti from Nyanza region easily won the race walk title.