The only thing I didn’t like about living in a small apartment in Kileleshwa, Nairobi, was not being able to keep a dog. I loved the way everybody was in everyone else’s face. If you couldn’t sleep and crawled to the kitchen to fix yourself a garbage omelette — that’s egg with everything else in the fridge — you would likely have small bundles of blankets crawling out of their beds too to share it. There are no corners for people to disappear into and, when someone has exams and is reading, the rest of you have to shut up and not watch violent movies on TV. DISCIPLINESmall flats in Kileleshwa are made for family. School is 10 minutes away and you can drive there half-asleep, with only one eye open. The drive to work, even in the worst of traffic, will never take more than 30 minutes. The folks are disciplined on the road, they don’t overlap and if you do they will not allow you back in lane. If you want to go for a run in the morning or evening, you can run on the road or you can go to Jaffery, the best running track in the city: It’s leafy and the surface is soft enough for old knees. KARURA FORESTMoving to Thika Road in search of a bigger space was one of those blunders common to African men of a certain age. To be sure, the communities are delightful; it is quiet and everyone is friendly, middle-aged and affluent. Karura Forest, next door, is a treasure for runners and those in search of oxygen in a city of filthy air. As a matter of fact, Karura Forest is one of Kenya’s most valuable possessions, which the people must be willing to protect with their lives. Prof Wangari Maathai should have won another Nobel for fighting off the grabbers who wanted to convert it into high-rises. OVERLAPThe dream starts to come apart on the roads, especially Kiambu Road and Thika Road. The seven-kilometre commute takes at least an hour and you must be on the road before 6am. Kiambu Road is one of the most primitive spaces in Kenya. Drivers rarely stay on the lane, preferring to overlap. Many are the times that one is forced to drive with overlapping drivers on both sides. Because of the peculiar and thoughtless approach to road building, Kiambu Road brings into the city traffic not just from Kiambu Town and beyond, but it is also a favourite for folks from Ruai and the outer limits who pour in via the Eastern Bypass. The congestion is biblical; the driving horrendous. MATATU SACCOSThat’s before you get to Thika Road. It is on Thika Road that you learn the truth about the Kenyan transport sector. It’s not run by the police or the ministry; it is run by the matatu mafia, also known as “saccos”. I have been traumatised by those ugly, long-nose Mwiki matatus, which break the law and brutalise motorists and passengers with impunity. Only recently, the crew of one those contraptions threw a university student out of a moving vehicle and nearly ran over him. They use the exits to enter the carriageway, they use the entries to exit; they stop in the middle of the superhighway to fix a puncture and sometimes to let off and pick up passengers. Hell, they even drive across the carriageway. And they do all these things in full view of police officers and the hundreds of traffic cameras on the road. BRIBEOne of my colleagues, who has some experience in the matatu business, told me that to put your vehicle on the road, some shadowy folks sidle up to you and give you an ultimatum: Pay us Sh40,000 upfront to “buy the route” and give us Sh700 per day. We will give you a crew and your vehicles will never get into trouble with the police. If you don’t, we’ll burn your matatu. That Sh700 is the price of total and absolute impunity that matatus pay to be allowed to create chaos on the roads, to brutalise other road users, to waste tens of thousands of man hours, to be the law of the road. At some point in its tenure, the Evans Kidero county administration painted boxes at intersections and declared that the city’s traffic woes were at an end. It was an empty declaration by people who should have known better. CONGESTIONNow the Transport ministry is, to quote the popular expression, applying lipstick on Thika Road and Mombasa Road and similarly declaring that congestion will be a thing of the past. Painting a lane and calling it a bus lane does not make it so. It is a cruel waste of time unless two things happen. First, there should be enforcement of traffic laws and lane discipline. You have to take the roads back from the mafia. Secondly, the roads must be studied and redesigned depending on use; it is not a fire-and-forget game. Alternatively, give people another viable means of transport and the congestion will disappear. Otherwise, you can apply the lipstick by the trowel but it still won’t make sense for city residents to move out of that little flat in Kileleshwa. mmutuma@ke.nationmedia.com  