Sixteen out of 20 top students in last year’s Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education exams (KCSE) have been selected to study at the University of Nairobi. Nine of the students will study Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery at the university. One student will take Bachelor of Science (Civil Engineering), while four students will study Bachelor of Architectural studies.  Two students will study Bachelor of Pharmacy. Statistics from Kenya Universities Central Placement Service (KUCCPS) indicate that the remaining four slots have been shared by Kenyatta University which has two while Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology, Moi University have one each. Karimi Naomi Kawira from Pangani Girls and who had a performance index of 87.011 will study Civil Engineering at the University of Nairobi. Sharon Jepchumba, who sat for KCSE at Moi Girls High School in Eldoret and had a performance index of 86.83 will study bachelor of Medicine and Surgery at the same institution. MEDICINE Kamau Brain Maina, formerly of Alliance High School, will study Bachelor of Science (Biomedical engineering) at Kenyatta University, while Kut Donata Odero, who took the exams at Lenana School, will join University of Nairobi to study Bachelor of Medicine, same as Brian Ongiri Onkundi. Nuutu Harriet Mueke (Mary Hill Girls High School), will study Bachelor of Architecture at the University of Nairobi. Morara Mongina Defence, who sat the exams at Pangani Girls, will study Medicine at Moi University. Mwatate Emily Saru, also from Pangani, will study Architecture at University of Nairobi, while Wahome Sherry Wanjiku will study Medicine the same university. 1,902 APPLICANTS Statistics from KUCCPS indicate that Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Electronics of JKUAT, with a capacity of 59 students, attracted 2,384 applicants, while Bachelor of Science (Civil Engineering) of University of Nairobi, with a capacity of 65, attracted 1,902 applicants. The two courses had a cut off points of 43.891 and 43.717 respectively. Bachelor of Science (Electrical and Electronics Engineering) at the University of Nairobi, with a capacity of 70, attracted 1,649 applicants. Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed, while releasing the results on Monday, said the number of students admitted to Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) courses has increased. STEM “Of the 62,851 already selected students, 28,135 (44.76 per cent) have been placed on STEM courses compared to 34,716 (55.24 per cent) who will be taking humanities. Of those joining STEM courses, 8,979 (31.91per cent) are female, while 19,156 (68.09) are male,” said Ms Mohamed. “The Ministry is keen on increasing admissions to STEM courses and to addressing gender imbalances,” she added.   Most of these colleges are owned by ministries or government departments.