Central Organisation of Trade Unions (Cotu) secretary general Francis Atwoli has castigated the Executive for its recent attacks on the Judiciary, saying that they were inviting anarchy into the country. Mr Atwoli rebuked Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i for his claims that there is a clique of judges working with the civil society in order to embarrass the government, saying that the clash between the two of government can lead to erosion of Kenyans’ confidence in the Judiciary. “Who are you to go and lecture people that there are fraudsters or people working with the civil society? If you see the Judiciary is under attack, know that bad things are on the way in the country as the courts are there to protect everyone, from the rich to the poor,” said Mr Atwoli. He was speaking on Saturday at Solidarity House, Cotu headquarters, in Nairobi during a meeting of the national umbrella union’s leaders from across the country in preparation for the forthcoming Labour Day celebrations on May 1. DALLIANCE Earlier this week, Dr Matiang’i alleged that there is a group of judges trapped in an unholy alliance with civil society groups and activist lawyers intent on embarrassing the government. The Interior CS claimed that the Judiciary had been captured by the two groups with the sole intention of civil society and activists "wanting to drag the Executive by the collar through trial by the public court." The Cotu boss drew parallels with what happened in Uganda during the reign of Idi Amin Dada where the government persecuted judges. “When the system erodes confidence of the governed in the Judiciary then they are inviting anarchy. People will start taking law into their own hands because the Judiciary has no confidence and that is how it started in Uganda under Amin Dada and it has never been the same again up to today,” said the secretary general. Mr Atwoli, defended the Judiciary saying that the courts have been operating in accordance with the Constitution. He instead, asked those who feel aggrieved to follow judicial procedures by appealing instead of resorting to attacking judges. He urged the Executive and government officials to tread carefully when it comes to matters of the court and desist from using their positions of power and influence to intimidate the Judiciary. “Young men and women in the system must respect the Judiciary. The law will always cut both sides so be prepared to take it or leave it,” said Mr Atwoli. CJ MARAGA The Cotu boss joins a growing list of people and institutions that have condemned the government’s attack on the Judiciary. Chief Justice David Maraga said that the Judiciary is guided only by the evidence and the law in making its decisions and even though he admitted that judges make mistakes, he insisted that appealing the decision should be the only recourse. Law Society of Kenya (LSK) President Allen Gichuhi, in an interview with NTV on Thursday said that Dr Matiang’i’s comments had caused unnecessary alarm and condemned his use of the word ‘evil’ to describe judges as unfortunate, calling for the CS to apologise. Opposition leader Raila Odinga also, in a statement on Wednesday, termed the outburst by Dr Matiang’i as "highly irresponsible and reckless", saying that his attack against the Judiciary was wrong, and he should have instead appealed decisions he was not happy with. DUALE Meanwhile, Mr Atwoli also hit out at National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale accusing him of being behind a plot to remove him from National Social Security Fund (NSSF) Board. “They are attacking me because I am your watchdog. When they attack me they are attacking 2.5 million members of Cotu plus other 15 million members of the larger East Africa Federation,” he said. He also criticized the government for their lack of urgency when it comes to workers’ welfare citing the ongoing strike by lecturers and university staff which has dragged on for long and the recent one by doctors which also took months to be resolved. “During the time of President Daniel Moi and even Mwai Kibaki you could not see such long drawn strikes as they would talk to the union leaders to find a solution but this government does not care,” said the Cotu boss.   Interior CS, found guilty of contempt of court last week, says activism is rife within corridors of justice.