Rugby 15s champions Kakamega High School on Tuesday got their title defence underway with an emphatic 59-13 win over Eastern Region’s Miathene as Brookside Term One secondary schools national games got underway at Kangaru School, Embu County. Debutantes Miathene had taken a shock 7-0 lead after only six minutes as Evans Mutethia beat Kakamega’s defence to touch down a try, before successful converting to the delight of home fans. However, Kakamega High eventually settled down in the match to dictate things. Winger David Kamau engineered the comeback as he muscled his way past Miathene defence for a try. Kakamega, who are chasing an eighth title, missed the conversion but extended their lead thanks to two tries from Tony Owino and one apiece from Stephen Wafula,  Cabirin Muhanga and Jovin Omondi to lead 25-7 at the breather. Miathene did not recover in the second half, and Kakamega turned on the style to further extend their lead in the Pool A encounter. Tight-head Emmanuel Sakwa starred for Kakamega in the second half with three tries and two conversions, with Wafula adding another try to make it two in the match. Miathene’s Mutethia scored two penalty conversations but the damage had already been done. Kakamega skipper Kevin Kimani warned that his team has yet to hit top form. “We started the match slowly and our defence was shaky but we settled down well and got the win which gives us the confidence going into our second match," he said. Kakamega face former champions St Mary’s Yala in their second match on Wednesday, and Kimani is banking on their good record against the Saints to shine. YALA TROUNCE ALLIANCE In the other pool match, Yala overcame Alliance Boys 17-5. In basketball, girls’ champions Kaya Tiwi from Coast beat Nyanza’s Barachando in Pool ‘A’ 68-32. Irene Onyango led Kaya with a game high 20 points, as Julia Akoth top scored with 12 points. In boys’ matches, Meru School crushed Wajir High 102-34 as Nyanza’s Ambira High defeated Aga Khan 68-57 in Pool ‘A’ with Elisha Odhiambo scoring 24 points to lead his side to victory. In hockey, East Africa boys’ champions Kisumu Day beat Shimo la Tewa 3-0 as and Musingu saw off hosts Kangaru 3-1 in another match. In the girls’ contest, Kerugoya of Central beat debutantes Mt Laverna from Nairobi 1-0 for their first victory in Group A. Jenifer Gitau scored Kerugoya’s all-important goal in the third quarter. Former champions Trans Nzoia Mixed beat St Joseph’s Kibwezi 2-1.  