Prison reforms that were started with pomp and pageantry by the Narc regime in 2003 never ran the full course. Political goodwill died and the reforms ground to a halt. But while they lasted, they made a difference for the institutions and inmates. The concern over the poor state of the prisons remains and must be tackled. Prisons are, by design, meant for correcting and rehabilitating offenders. Never were they intended to dehumanise people. This is the reason why they are also called “correctional services”. PETTY OFFENDERSIt is in light of this that we acknowledge the proposal to release more than 5,000 petty offenders from prisons; first to decongest the institutions and, second, to grant the inmates freedom to rejoin their families and regain their dignity. One of the major challenges facing the prisons is congestion. As currently constituted, the prisons can only accommodate 30,000 inmates but, on average, have more than 50,000 with 40 per cent awaiting trial. Broadly, the mess in the prisons epitomises the weaknesses of our justice system. REHABILITATE First, suspects are kept for too long before their cases are determined by courts that they end up suffering double jeopardy; being treated like convicts when their cases have not been decided and, ultimately, punished if found guilty. Second, which is what the reprieve is all about, is the folly of keeping people in prison for misdemeanour. Evidence abound indicating that many petty offenders end up becoming hardcore criminals after they leave jail owing to their experiences behind bars. Third, save for a few cases, prisons have not succeeded in correcting or rehabilitating inmates largely because of the conditions therein. REFORM Inmates are mistreated and subjected to inhumane conditions that harden them. While we commend the plan to release the petty offenders, that should be a stop-gap measure. We call for a rethink of the entire justice system, in particular resuscitating and completing the prison reform programme. The government must demonstrate goodwill and adequately fund prisons to improve their conditions and enact policies that promote inmates’ rights.  