President Uhuru Kenyatta now wants the Tennis Kenya Training Centre that is set for construction at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani completed in two years. President Kenyatta said upcoming tennis players and the public should be able to use the facility within the next year where the first phase should be complete. The Head of State disclosed that the Government had allocated Sh30 million for the first phase of the project that will cost Sh1 billion but added that they will review the funding in the next budget with more funds set to be allocated. The President made the disclosure when he held talks with the visiting International Tennis Federation (ITF) president David Haggerty among other officials from Confederation of Africa Tennis and Tennis Kenya on Wednesday evening at State House, Nairobi. The Tennis Kenya Training Centre that will have 24 courts, an administration block and hostels. Tennis Kenya had estimated the construction will take up to five years with the first phase of six courts and an administration block that will cost Sh75 million, coming up within a year. However, the President said the project should be hastened as the country follows the example of great tennis playing nations like United States where many stars honed their skills in public courts rather than exclusive private clubs. “Tennis has not been available to our people. We want to make it a public sport that is open to the people. The talent is there but it is facilities that have been lacking,” said the President. Haggerty presided over the ground breaking of the tennis project at Kasarani before heading to State House for a meeting with President Kenyatta. The government has donated 10 acres of land worth Sh300 million for the project. Haggerty said ITF will in the next one month disclose how much they will donate to the project after the finance committee meets in London in two weeks’ time. “I told the President that we are committed to the course but we must figure out the details and specifics of the project before knowing how much we can put in,” said Haggerty, who wrapped up his two-day tour Thursday when he opened ITF East Africa High Performance Centre along Masaba Road, Upper Hill, Nairobi. In attendance during the opening ceremony was National Olympic Committee of Kenya (Nock) President Paul Tergat, the Confederation of African Tennis (CAT) chief Tarak Cherif, the ITF London office Project Administrator Frank Couraud and Tennis Kenya boss James Kenani. Haggerty said they have allocated US$ 210,000 (Sh21.4million) for the High Performance Centre that was moved from Burundi two years ago. Olympic Solidarity has also supported the centre with US$20,000 (Sh2 million) while Tennis Kenya Sh700,000. The centre has 12 players drawn from Kenya, Burundi, Cameroon, Gabon and Madagascar. They reside, train and receive education at the Centre that is under ITF Certified coaches headed by ITF Development Officer, Thierry Ntwali.   World class facility will transform way sport is played in Kenya, says touring ITF president.