Budalang’i MP Raphael Wanjala is set to be charged in a Busia court on Monday with offences related to causing chaos at a public function on Friday. Vihiga OCPD Justin Nyagah told the Nation on Sunday that the legislator will be detained for his safety “as he comes from a hostile ground.” The police boss said the MP is to be charged with malicious damage, endangering people in an aircraft and assaulting a police officer on Friday when his supporters clashed with those of his predecessor and Foreign Affairs CAS Ababu Namwamba. The MP is being detained at Mbale police station in Vihiga County where several senior politicians unsuccessfully tried to bail him out. Police have been holding Mr Wanjala since Saturday evening after arresting him in a hotel in Kisumu. They then transferred him to the neighbouring Vihiga County where the Western region criminal investigation team is following up on his role in the fracas that ensued at a public event in Busia on Friday. Mr Wanjala, spent the night at Mbale police station cells on Saturday night and recorded a statement on Sunday. BAIL High profile politicians who came to visit him failed to secure his freedom on bail. Senators George Khaniri (Vihiga) and Amos Wako (Busia) arrived at the station at different times but later left after failing to secure his release. Mr Wanjala spent much of the Sunday recording statements with the police even as his supporters led by the Budget and Appropriation Committee chairman from Busia County Assembly Mr John Egesa waited for his release on bail in vain. Without divulging more information, the OCPD said the station was used to “provide an overnight stay” for the embattled legislator. “He is recording a statement,” said Mr Nyagah. And Mr Khaniri, who visited the MP at the police station after attending a church service at Womulalu Friends Church, said he was at the station to try to bail him out. “I learnt of his arrest [on Saturday] night and I am here to show solidarity...we have don’t know what they are charging him with but whatever the offence, I am sure it is bailable,” said the senator after holding talks with Mr Wanjala at the station. “I am ready to ensure that he is released on bail after he completes writing the statement.” The Vihiga senator then left the police station, promising to return if the MP will not have been released but did not show up again. WAKO VISIT Mr Wako, arrived at around 4pm, and held talks with the MP but showed up without him saying the matter involving the MP was still being discussed. “I just came to be briefed. I came to see what he is undergoing. As you know I am the Busia senator and the MP comes from Busia and we belong to the same party,” said Mr Wako as he boarded his vehicle and left. The move left Mr Wanjala’s supporters stranded at the rarely busy station located along Kakamega-Kisumu highway. On Friday, Mr Wanjala fled Busia after his supporters clashed with those of his political rival at the Sigiri bridge. Mr Namwamba had accompanied a team from the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure that was led by CAS Chris Obure to inspect Sigiri bridge repair works, an event the Budalang’i MP claimed he had not been invited to. The incident forced police to lob teargas canisters and fire bullets to disperse the rowdy crowd.    Chaos erupted after youth blocked CAS Ababu Namwamba from accessing dais to address residents at Sigiri bridge.