Kenya’s 1,500 metres team led by World 1,500m champion Elijah Manangoi has laid out an elaborate play on how the athletes will destroy the field for a podium sweep at the Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, Australia. Manangoi will team up with World 1,500m silver medallist Timothy Cheruiyot and World Junior 1,500m champion Kumari Taki in the men’s metric mile race where Kenya hopes for a clean sweep of medals after a 1-2 feat in the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow and 2010 edition in Delhi. Silas Kiplagat led compatriot James Magut to a 1-2 feat in Delhi before Magut went for glory in 2014 where Ronald Kwemoi settled for silver. Manangoi will be making his second appearance at the ‘Club Games’ after a hamstring injury saw him fall in the semi-finals in Glasgow but Cheruiyot, the 2017 Diamond league Series 1,500m winner, and Taki, will be making their debut in the Commonwealth Games. The men’s 1,500m team was part of the third batch of team Kenya that will leave the country tonight for the Gold Coast “Club Games” due April 4 to 15 in Australia. “It’s possible and we are going for it 100 per cent,” declared Manangoi, who is Team Kenya captain. “Personally, I have to lead by example and that is the title I want after a hamstring injury ruined my chances in Glasgow.” Manangoi, 25, said they have a great team but they shall put God first in everything they do in Australia. “There is no pressure with good health. All we need is to concentrate and make the finals both of us,” said Manangoi, who also downplayed the favourite tag. “I am humble with the status but we all have equal chances for gold and that should be the driving spirit. I am happy youngster Taki regained form right on time,” explained Manangoi. “This race needs lot of planning and good execution, considering that we have three rounds.” Cheruiyot, who called for team work, warned his training mate Manangoi and Taki that he would not go easy on the two should they relax during the final. “Wenzangu wakiregea nitanyorosha hao (I will crush them if they slacken),” warned Cheruiyot, 22, adding that a great teamwork will make things easy for them. “However, we all need to embrace team work less we get a shocker from our rivals,” he added. Taki, 18, said graduating to senior level is a great feeling but noted that it comes with more challenges. Taki explained that he has gained good speed and shape since joining Manangoi and Cheruiyot in training. “I am glad they have been helpful and there are no jokes in training,” said Taki. “That is the atmosphere a youngster like me need so as to cope up with the high speed in the race.” Taki said any kind of a medal will be great for him adding that the pains he had in both frames of his legs have eased. “I will need to concentrate and plan well for the race.”  