Hundreds of Rwandans living in Kenya on Saturday held a procession in Nairobi to commemorate the 1994 Genocide. Led by Rwanda High Commissioner to Kenya Ambassador James Kimonyo, the Rwandans and their friends, held a procession through Nairobi city’s Uhuru Park, city centre through Koinange Street and back to mark the beginning of the mourning week. “Every April 7 each year, from 1994, Rwandese living at home and abroad come together to honour, mourn and remember the victims of the genocide against the Tutsi. Today is the beginning of the mourning week that runs up to April 13. We will continue with the remembrance period which runs up to July 3,” said Ambassador Kimonyo. The envoy said that the walk was significant to Rwandan citizens as it offered them a time to reflect on what happened in 1994, why it happened and what they should do to ensure that the incident does not happen again. COME TOGETHER “The walk is a message that we send to friends to remind them about the genocide, what we did to come together, and what we should do as humanity to stop similar incidents from happening elsewhere,” he said. The theme of this year’s event, which marks 24 years since the massacre of more than 1 million Rwandans in just 100 days, is Remember, Renew and Unite to become one people. He said that what fueled the genocide against the Tutsi was division along ethnic lines, which he said, the current government has made sure does not occur again. “We killed each other because we were deeply divided within ethnic lines but we have embarked on reconciliation process to forge ahead as one people as opposed to politics of ethnic identity,” said the envoy. RECONCILIATION Mr Kimonyo said that the government of Rwanda, under President Paul Kagame, has adopted a new programme to foster reconciliation by embracing an open door policy where Rwandese in diaspora are allowed back without any hindrance. “The new policy of the government is to open the door for every Rwandan wherever they are to come back without any hindrance and settle as a citizen,” he said. He, however, denied reports that the government was forcing Rwandese living outside to return to the country by force. On Tuesday, they will hold celebrations at the United Nation headquarters in Gigiri, Nairobi. In Gigiri, performances from students and panel discussions will be held.  EDNS   Philippe Hategekimana was arrested in Yaounde, Cameroon's capital, officials say.