Three elite national schools admitted more than half of last year’s top 100 Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) candidates. Alliance High School admitted 24 top students, Alliance Girls High School took in 23 while Kenya High School absorbed 21 students. TOP PUPILS Goldalyn Kakuya, who topped in the examination, joined Kenya High School, while the second best candidate, Sharon Murega, went to Alliance Girls High School. Goldalyn studied at St Anne Junior School Lubao in Kakamega County and scored 455 marks in the exam, while Sharon studied at Kathigiri Boarding Primary School in Meru and scored 447 marks. Mangu High School admitted nine students, Pangani Girls (7), Nairobi School (2), while Starehe Boys Centre, Lenana School, Loreto High School, Limuru Girls, Mama Ngina, Bunyore Girls, Kapsabet, Mary Hill Girls and Murang’a High admitted one student each from this top cream. These candidates had 438-455 marks in the KCPE exam, a majority of them having come from private schools across the country. SELECTION A total of 993,718 candidates did the exams and the government has assured that there will be 100 per cent transition to secondary school. The students started to report to their new schools on January 9 and the exercise was concluded on January 17 after a one week extension due to poor turn out. On Wednesday, students who were selected during the replacement exercise will report to their respective secondary schools. However, a number of parents are still at home with their children as they seek to secure slots in elite national schools and not schools where their children were invited to join as they consider the latter as inferior. This comes even as the government stepped up efforts to have a 100 per cent transition from primary to secondary schools, for which it set aside a Sh29 billion budget. DAY WINGS Similarly, the government said it has released Sh7.5 billion for printing and supply of six core textbooks. During the release of the results, it emerged that only seven public primary schools made it to the list of top 100 schools in the country. The schools were Kathigiri B Primary School in Meru County, Bishop Muge Memorial in Nandi County, Ikombe Primary School in Machakos County and Webuye AC in Bungoma County. Others were Kipkeino Primary School in Uasin Gishu, Kamoiwo Prep School in Nandi County and St Peter’s Mumias in Kakamega County. The ministry is also seeking to delink admission of students from bed capacity and about 19 schools in Nairobi have been selected for the pilot programme. The schools are required to admit 1,350 students to their day wings this year.  