The drive by the Commission for University Education to create order in the universities is sound. However, the approach is not right. It is a well-established fact that the higher education sector had become chaotic because of unplanned expansion, hence the need for a shakeup. For nearly two decades, the government and the commission have presided over the denigration of higher education by allowing the creation of universities and campuses in every corner of the country without due regard to law and order. IMPUNITY At one time, several public universities were established and chartered in a mass ritual meant to appease some communities and massage political egos. Private entrepreneurs took the cue and set up institutions that are no better than high schools. Faith-based universities, which started on sound footing, joined the rat race and threw caution to the wind. They now find themselves in financial, administrative and professional distress. We must end this morass. AUDITBut this does not mean throwing out the baby with the bath water. The commission needs a progressive process to sort out the mess. A year ago, it undertook an audit of all the public universities and found serious anomalies. Consequently, it gave each university targets with timelines to redress them. The understanding was that the commission would walk with the universities through the journey, provide guidance and only shut down those that prove irredeemable. REFORMSHowever, it seems the commission and the Education ministry have high-handedly targeted the universities, shutting down even some that were on the recovery path. Even more surprising are the criteria for identifying those to penalise and those left to operate. It is true that some of the private institutions are in poor shape, but public universities are no exception. And why continue to charter more universities when some are faltering? In principle, the commission must crack down on poorly managed universities that give a raw deal to students, but this should be systematic, not ruthless, taking cognisance of the investments made and future of the students.  