Sharp rifts that had threatened to rip apart the Nyandarua County Assembly were suppressed on Thursday after a last-minute intervention by the top county leadership, the Nation has established. The bone of contention was the supplementary budget proposed by Governor Francis Kimemia. THREAT More than 10 MCAs from the county had called for a press conference at the Kenya School of Monetary Studies, where they were on a retreat, to protest against the manner in which county affairs were being conducted. The MCAs had also threatened to oust some leaders in the county for what they termed incompetence, prompting the county leadership to act swiftly. But in a curious turn of events, some ward representatives, led by Njabini MCA Wanjiku Muhoho, told journalists that there was no crisis in the county leadership. “Nyandarua County Assembly is united. We are working together with all leaders for the delivery of services to the people of Nyandarua,” said Ms Muhoho. ULTIMATUM She, however, said the leaders could be kicked out of office if they do not perform to expectation. “If we want to remove any leaders, we would strictly adhere to the guidelines contained in the County Standing Orders,” said Ms Muhoho. “Politics is dynamic. The fact that we support our leadership today doesn’t mean we will support them tomorrow. If they display poor leadership, then they must be ready to go.” DIVISION Some MCAs, however, gave the press conference a wide berth, a gesture that could possibly point to the unease between the various factions of MCAs. Shamata MCA Reuben Gitau, said to be the fulcrum behind the planned protests and ouster, also did not attend the press conference. But speaking to the Nation in a separate interview, Mr Gitau said there were sharp rifts in the county assembly. He attributed the divisions to what he termed “unfair distribution of positions” in the county leadership. LEADERSHIP POSTS “Some of us are dissatisfied with the way the positions were dished out. There must be fairness in everything that is done in the county,” Mr Gitau said without revealing details. “I am not opposed to the county government’s request for a supplementary budget, contrary to lies being peddled by detractors in the county,” he said. “I am fully in support of the governor and his development agenda for the county.” Nyandarua County has 38 elected MCAs.  