Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko on Monday downplayed the fallout between him and his deputy Polycarp Igathe. Mr Igathe resigned last Friday. NON-COMMITTAL When he was asked if he was ready to reconcile with his deputy, Mr Sonko said he would "consult" Nairobi residents and the Jubilee Party leadership. “What dialogue? Those are issues that I cannot address here. They concern the people of Nairobi and [we] will talk about them when I get there. I cannot decide now. I will have to consult the electorates and other leaders who are also not part of Jubilee. “We have a good working relationship with leaders from all the parties. I will consult them on the way forward as we are all determined to serve the people of Nairobi,” he added. When the governor was asked whether State House interfered with running of the city government, he only said that he is still a Jubilee governor. He spoke to journalists after he officially opened the Nairobi MCA Sectoral Committee on Water and Sanitation workshop at Pride Inn Hotel in Shanzu, Mombasa. SERVICES Mr Sonko said he would work with other elected leaders and professionals to deliver services to Nairobians. “I have professors with me and other elected leaders around. I have also been a senator, a member of Parliament and God is there. Work will continue. We will serve our people and ensure they get what we promised them,” Mr Sonko said. He dismissed reports that Mr Igathe’s resignation was the culmination of multi-billion-shilling tender wars. Mr Sonko termed the reports propaganda and hearsay. “Those are reports in the paper and they will remain just there. We cannot focus on hearsay," he added. IGATHE Mr Igathe quit his post as deputy governor last Friday, sending shockwaves across the political divide especially after showcasing unrivalled public unity with Mr Sonko during and after the campaigns. The former Vivo Energy managing director claimed that he has failed to earn Governor Sonko’s trust to enable him work at the county. “Dear Nairobians, it is with a heavy heart that I resign my seat as elected Deputy Governor of Nairobi City County effective 1pm on 31st Jan 2018. I regret I have failed to earn the trust of the Governor to enable me to drive Admin & Management of the county,” he said in a post on his Twitter account. “Without fear, favour or ill will I step down to avoid abusing or betraying my oath of office to Kenyans, Nairobians and my family. Thank you for the encouraging support given to me so far.” Mr Igathe’s move came at a time when Nairobi is chocking with the hawkers menace, garbage, potholes and water shortage. During campaigns, the Jubilee leadership had promised to return the city to glory.   Their reign appeared assured after court ruled in their favour only for deputy to resign