President Uhuru Kenyatta has announced creation of position of Chief Administrative Secretary in all ministries. The president also named more Cabinet secretaries. Veteran journalist Farida Karoney was named CS Ministry of Lands, Prof Margaret Kobia is the nominee for Ministry of Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs, while Mr John Munyes was named CS Petroleum and Mining. EDUCATION Ms Monica Juma was appointed to replace Ms Amina Mohamed as Foreign Affairs CS. Former Budalang'i MP Ababu Namwamba will be Ms Juma's Chief Administrative Secretary and Macharia Kamau the Principal Secretary. Ms Mohamed was moved to head the Education Ministry. Former Meru Governor Peter Munya was appointed East Africa Community CS, Mr Rashid Mohammed will be Sports and Heritage CS and Mr Simon Chelugui (Water and Sanitation). Former Water CS Eugene Wamalwa was moved to Devolution Ministry while former Director of Public Prosecution Keriako Tobiko was appointed Environment CS. Cecily Kariuki was moved from Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs to head the Health Ministry. Jubilee Party Secretary-General Raphael Tuju was named a CS without a portfolio. President Kenyatta retained James Macharia as Transport CS, Joe Mucheru at Ministry of ICT and Adan Mohammed as head of Industrialisation docket. Former Nairobi Woman Representative Rachel Shebesh was appointed Chief Administrative Secretary in the Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs Ministry. AMBASSADORS Former Environment CS Judi Wakhungu was named Kenya envoy to France, Mr Dan Kazungu to head to Tanzania, Ms Phyllis Kandie (Belgium), Mr Willy Bett (India) and Hassan Wario to Austria. Mr Jacob Kaimenyi who was Land’s CS was made Kenya’s envoy to Unesco, while former Health CS Cleopa Mailu has been appointed Permanent Representative to UN in Geneva. Other appointees are Mr Kiema Kilonzo who was named Kenya’s ambassador to Ghana while Mr Lazarus Amayo was appointed to head Kenya's UN mission in New York City.   Rashid Mohammed has been appointed Cabinet Secretary for Sports and Heritage by President Uhuru Kenyatta.