The Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD) is the body charged with midwifing the competence-based curriculum as the country moves away from the 8-4-4 system, whose deadline the National Steering Committee of the new syllabus says will be phased out in 2027. Due to an interest in competence-based training, and with experience in classroom teaching, this writer has taken an avid interest in the KICD website, https://kicd.ac.ke/. The drive away from the content-driven, teacher-centred 8-4-4 approach to the process-driven, learner-centred CBC approach is well grounded. A look at the Needs Assessment Report (2016) by the KICD director/CEO, Dr Julius Jwan, is eye-opening. Further, in the past three years, KICD has done copious amounts of work. However, KICD has not done proper public communication on the new curriculum to ensure its wide acceptance. Public work must not only be done but be seen to be done. KICD must also simplify their communication. Their media is too technical and full of jargon. For instance, talking of “constructivism”, “visible learning”, “multiple intelligence” and other theories is likely to alienate a big proportion of Kenyans. PROJECT-BASED MODELS The competence-based approach to learning was developed from the outcomes-based concept of sociologist William Spady. It is one of several learner-centred approaches that include phenomenon-based, inquiry-based and project-based models. It builds on the basic thinking that learners learn best when deeply involved in their learning, as confirmed by Dr Daniel Edelson and others, writing in the Journal of the Learning Sciences (1999. Learners retain the learning for longer and are better able to apply it outside the classroom. Competency-based education holds that every learning equips the learner with demonstrable skills which can be isolated, in advance, for checking by the educator. After the learning, the educator can assess the level of intake. Planning is then much easier. School administrators, teachers, parents and even learners want our education changed from the examination-focused rote learning. The KICD research shows this. But the new approach has its drawbacks. First, it is expensive, and demanding of teachers and learners. It emphasises teacher delivery, learning climate and feedback. It means that we have to employ more teachers. PAY DISPUTE Second, and an extension of the previous point, the increased demand on teacher time will, definitely, invite a human resource discussion. There has been a big public wage bill discussion while teachers have had a long-running pay dispute, which has only undergone an uneasy quiet. This matter will be back. A critic of the new system, Peter Greene, who writes in the blog http://curmudgucation.blogspot.co.ke/, reckons that it is best applied on simple, not complex, tasks. He uses the example of basketball to make his point. Greene says that shooting, jumping, blocking and dribbling skills can be learnt in the CBC manner. However, that cannot produce a LeBron James! Sporting skills may be learnt by breaking them down into parts (techniques) and applying repetitions. This enables the muscle to remember the technique when called on (muscle memory). This is where the term ‘drilling’ comes from. Many sporting skills can be learnt in the way Greene suggests. Here, a skill is “a technique applied successfully under pressure”. The critique is, therefore, partly, but not entirely, true. REAL APPLICATION Competence training is big on game-based application. In short, real-life application. CBC demands a lot of real application, testing and review of learning. No amount of coaching (only) produces players of the ilk of LeBron James, Lionel Messi or Daniel Carter. There’s a huge dose of natural talent involved there: X-factor. However, there’s no question that they thrive better in a game-based coaching environment (a core part of CBE coaching) than in a content-based environment. The same thinking applies to the classroom. There may be a need to adjust for entirely new discipline areas, as found when entering new topic areas. That is in the purview of teacher skill. The curriculum approach was never meant to change the core of the education discipline. The institute recognises this when it quotes the usual education theory suspects, like John Dewey, Jean Piaget and Howard Gardner. It must just communicate and execute better. Mr Ollows has been involved in competence-based training since 2007. fred.ollows@gmail.com.  