Is there a set of more terrified fans than AFC Leopards supporters following the withdrawal of their shirt sponsor earlier this month? The club’s financial crises in the recent past are well documented and with the withdrawal of the team’s main shirt sponsors after the courts upheld the government’s proposed 35 percent tax on all betting firms, one can only imagine what will follow. Starting with a striker in goal two seasons ago should have been the last straw but it seems we are yet to see more. Being the oldest club in the country and one of the most successful in the region should be a tag that the team takes pride in. Sadly, it has nothing written on it except the more than half-a-century old struggles that the club faces today. Tales of near misses, pain and agony cap off the last two decades where the club has gone without the league title. Leopards fans have helplessly watched as younger teams like Sony Sugar, Mathare United and Sofapaka take home the title. I will not talk about the other team in green because the pain of seeing them lift the title as we struggle has been unbearable. ENDLESS DEBTS Leopards’ failures have become so common that the fans’ hopes have diminished over the years and they are okay with a top-three finish. Why is the club in and out of debt every season? Sometimes it’s good to benchmark with your peers. Older clubs than Leopards like TP Mazembe have made tremendous strides. They are Caf Champions League and Confederation Cup winners, own stadiums, clubs houses, private jets etc as our dear club is busy trying to fundraise and activate their pay bill number each time calamity strikes. From rifts in the top management to sub tribal divisions in the playing unit, the Den has never been short of problems. When Mumias Sugar withdrew its sponsorship the club struggled but there was a ray of hope when Sportpesa came on board. But now its all doom and gloom as we approach the new season. The club bosses need to wake up from the deep slumber they are in. They need to come out strong and start building a better Den. We need to write a new narrative. Newly promoted Wazito have a story Leopards bosses can learn from. Wazito have a club merchandise shop and are also listed in the Nairobi Securities Exchange. Maybe if Leopards were to head in the same direction, the support base would play a major role in helping the club ease its financial woes. It is now a matter of wait and see what the future holds.  