The main concern in the country regarding polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and the environment is the pollution associated with plastic packaging. According to the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, nearly 50 million plastic bottles are used annually. Being non-biodegradable, plastics can stay in the environment long after they are disposed of, and especially if shielded from direct sunlight either buried in landfills, hidden in forests or under water. Waste management companies are unable to cope with the refuse generated by the increasing population in urban areas. A large part of our waste management problems is also due to poor public awareness and perception on plastic waste. CREATE AWARENESS As an industry, we have a key role to play in creating awareness and advocating behaviour change, which is the most effective way of addressing the menace. We have an opportunity to educate people on the implications of plastic waste pollution on the environment, their health, and their livelihoods – a push for behaviour change. Though there are concerns about the negative effects of plastics on the environment, PET is still a highly valued packaging material due to its strong, lightweight, non-reactive, economical, and shatterproof qualities. Its safety for food, beverage, personal care, pharmaceutical and medical applications is also recognised by health authorities worldwide. COST-EFFECTIVE Due to its versatility, light weight and cost-effective nature, it exists in our everyday lives in numerous forms, which explains why the global production of plastics surged from 15 million tonnes in 1964 to 311 million tonnes in 2014. Though the growth comes with economic benefits, it also contributes to solid waste. This has led to a shift in the global conversation with environmentalists and policy makers seeking alternatives to plastics such as glass. We do not have to stop using plastics, but need efficient and sustainable methods of waste management. Trucost, a sustainability think-tank, estimates that substituting plastic in consumer products and packaging, would increase environmental costs from $139 billion to $533 billion. PARTNERSHIP The industry’s proactive nature on PET waste management has been a real game changer. In 2017, the PET sector group of the Kenya Association of Manufacturers (KAM) entered into a partnership with the government to kick off an advocacy on recycling. This initiative will ensure a sustainable solution to the menace. The KAM members will adopt a model used by PETCO South Africa, who run a successful industry-driven and financed initiative whereby PET bottles and waste are collected and recycled. This will require recruiting people to help in the collection of plastic bottles for recycling. This has been considered a sustainable solution in various parts of the world. Polyethylene terephthalate is a plastic resin and a form of polyester, which is highly recyclable. Innovation is also key. Recycled PET can also be used to produce products such as polyester carpet fibre, fabric for T-shirts, sports shoes, industrial strapping, automotive parts, and art forms. This model will benefit the economy through the creation of jobs and promotion of micro, small and medium enterprises, to be incorporated in the plastics recycling value chain. The model has a recycling chain involving collection; sorting and separation; label removing, washing and shredding; separation by floating, creating jobs. A holistic approach with the participation of the public, government, industry and NGOs is the only long-term solution to any environmental concerns and solid waste problems.  Ms Mutahi is the chairperson of the Kenya Association of Manufacturers. info@kam.co.ke  