President Uhuru Kenyatta on Tuesday jetted back into the country from Addis Ababa hours after opposition leader Raila Odinga was “sworn in” as the “people’s president”. The plane carrying the President, who was accompanied by First Lady Margaret Kenyatta, touched down at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airports at around 5.37pm. On arrival, the President inspected a quarter guard mounted by Kenya Airforce. The President then headed to the presidential pavilion for a meeting with senior government officials among them Deputy President William Ruto. Private media at the airport were not allowed to cover his return, with Nation journalists being turned away. Instead, the Presidential Strategic Communication Unit (PSCU) only allowed State-owned KBC and K24 — associated with Kenyatta family — to cover the event. “We are from Nation Media Group and we have been assigned to cover this event,” our team told PSCU officials who replied, “no”, as they walked towards the restricted area. Security officers insisted that only the two stations had been asked to cover the event and asked the Nation journalists to leave. Earlier in the day, the Communications Authority of Kenya had shut down private media outlets to prevent live coverage of Mr Odinga’s “swearing-in”. At the African Union summit in Ethiopia, African leaders focused on reforms and moving towards a free trade area. The reform measures, crafted by a panel led by Rwandan President Paul Kagame, were around enhanced financial contributions as well as ensuring greater efficiency at the AU Commission in Ethiopia. Kenya is broadly supportive of the reforms. “Kenya strongly supports the reforms at the African Union as that is the surest way to ensure the union, its commission, organs and agencies are fit for purpose and well equipped to deliver on the ambitious aspirations of the African people as spelt out in Agenda 2063,” said President Kenyatta at the summit. Leaders also discussed ways to urgently combat terrorism that has become a major threat to peace, security and development. They assured that peace and stability will continue to be given priority in the continent. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said he was working on strengthening the partnership between AU and UN, especially on peace and security in Africa. In South Sudan, Mr Guterres said the UN had aligned its position with the AU and the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (Igad), saying the partnership was important to building a safer world. “UN fully supports Africa’s initiatives for peace and reconciliation across the continent. We support solutions that are Africa-owned, Africa-driven and Africa-led,” he said. On the sidelines of the summit, President Kenyatta met Mr Guterres and discussed peace plans in South Sudan and Somalia. President Kenyatta and Mr Guterres reviewed progress in efforts to bring sustainable peace in the countries. The UN boss acknowledged the South Sudan peace initiatives spearheaded by Igad and encouraged member states to keep up with their efforts. He particularly wanted President Kenyatta to return to the forefront of continental efforts to secure a lasting solution in Kenya’s northern neighbour. President Kenyatta assured Mr Guterres that the AU summit provided an opportunity for Igad leaders to meet and discuss ways of rejuvenating the peace process.  “In essence, it is about Kenya working with the region, and partners like the UN to secure peace in South Sudan. It is a subject that concerns us, as much as it does the UN,” he said. The President also outlined gains achieved by the African Peer Review Mechanism in monitoring the continent’s performance.   Nasa principals including Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang'ula absent during event.