The scene unfolding in Parliament regarding leadership of committees is worrisome. It seriously undermines the independence and authority of the Legislature, reducing it to mere appendage of the Executive. Unless checked, it is a prelude to complete emasculation of the House and, consequently, death of democracy and good governance. JUBILEE Four committee chairpersons, all from Jubilee Party, have been kicked out through a State-orchestrated push, in disregard to normative parliamentary practice. Though elected procedurally, they were not Jubilee’s choice for the positions. Consequently, the National Assembly Speaker was arm-twisted and party MPs shepherded to pass a vote of no confidence against them. Oddly, the petition to the Speaker posited that the committee members were not in their right frame of mind when they elected the four. How ridiculous! How can all committee members collectively lose their mind? Does it mean we have MPs who, at times, lose control of their faculties? How sure are we that they are now in the right frame of mind to make judicious decisions? Only recently, we expressed our concern over the State machinations to have Jubilee take over the leadership of all Senate committees except one — the Public Accounts Committee, which is traditionally reserved for the Opposition. KANU It was not going to take long before we would see the Executive extending its grip. By the State determining which Jubilee MP holds what position, the Executive is slowly but steadily capturing Parliament and, sooner rather than later, dictate activities of the House, hence end its independence. We have experience from history. During its heyday in the 1980s and ’90s, then-ruling party Kanu had a complete stranglehold of Parliament. Debates were choreographed and all MPs sang the same tune. MPs and ministers were routinely penalised for their contributions, parliamentary privilege notwithstanding. This is the trajectory the House is taking and, unless we fight back, we are witnessing the beginning of a reversal of democratic gains. Progressive forces must stand up, fight and resist this trend.  