The construction of a dual carriageway on a notorious black spot along the Nakuru-Eldoret highway will begin in March after the government received bids for works from prospective companies. Kenya National Highways Authority (KeNHA) said the expansion of the stretch will also include erection of safety features like road markings and installation of signage. At least 150 people died on the stretch in December, according to official statistics from the National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA). “Bids for the construction of dual carriageway were received on January 18 and will be reviewed over the next two weeks. The work is expected to commence early March and will take one year to complete,” said a statement by KeNHA assistant director of communication Charles Njogu. The road will be built at the climbing lane section and separation of traffic and the installation of jersey barrier, construction of a lorry brakes checking point as well as road marking with yellow and white paints and reflective studs. There will also be an erection of road signs including both informatory and warnings. A report by NTSA indicates that most notorious spots are Salgaa, Sachangwan, Migaa and Soysambu in Nakuru County with most accidents caused by speeding, lane indiscipline, reckless driving and driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs. KeNHA had earlier said that it planned to have the road done under public-private partnership. “The procurement of the contractor consortium is on-going. This will ensure that the entire road capacity and safety is improved,” the statement further says. The authority yesterday said it is continuously monitoring and improving the 22-kilometre section from Sobea to Kibuja to ensure there is clear road marking as well as proper signage. Similar measures, the authority said, are set to be rolled out in various other black spots along the roads under its mandate. “We have installed four gantry signages at Kibuja and Sobea with safety information as well as clearing road reserve on that section of the highway and across the country to improve visibility. Encroachments create blind spots and poor visibility that eventually leads to road carnages,” said KeNHA.   Police, NTSA and KeNHA identify 15 blackspots where death is a slip away.