Wondering where to get the 411 on what's happening in Nairobi's foodie scene? There's a lot of places you could go, but here's where we want you to be – getting the dish on the dish. Get it? We knew you would. I'm a sucker for a good brunch. Breakfast is the best meal of the day, but since I'm never awake in time to partake of it, brunch is the next best thing. I don't know why the thought of waffles and calamari in the middle of my morning gives me such a delight, but such are the mysteries of the world we live in. Have you noticed that everything else they have ever made that is supposed to compete with brunch has never really succeeded? Brinner. Linner. Dunch. I mean, really? Lunch and dinner is the same thing, and if it's at six, it's just supper. PERFECT BRUNCH On this search of mine, for a perfect brunch, I couldn't help but delve into the inexpensive brunch option at Brew Bistro. You see the thing is, all of my favourite brunches are rather pricey and can only be attended when payday has just come in, or it's my birthday, and definitely not in January. Brew Bistro's brunch was the perfect alternative.   At a supremely reasonable Sh1500 for an all you can eat buffet till 4 pm, the quality and quantity really couldn't be beat. HERE’S WHAT I MEAN BY QUANTITY When I say quantity, I mean everything that you think could ever make a brunch good for an urban crowd, even the music to make you feel like you're at a daytime rave. Attentive waiters, a wide selection of meats, waffle options and toppings, stir fries, desserts, breads, cakes, muffins... you want to go there right now, don't you? GREAT WHILE IT LASTED And it was great, while it lasted. Even when everyone discovered it and it was always full, it was still pretty good. Brew has the uncanny ability to time things that they know everyone wants. Like in their brunch's case, brunch would end at 4pm, and then you practically felt obligated to wait just the one hour till Happy Hour anyway, now that you'd been there the whole day. Then a few weeks ago, they added the pricing for the brunch. And I can understand that. It's a popular brunch. But the reason they claim they added the price was because they were adding unlimited juice to the all you can eat pricing.   WHO ASKED FOR JUICE? I was baffled. Did someone ask for juice? If you wanted to drink juice, wasn't it easier to just buy it? How much juice can you drink, really, to warrant unlimited juice? How about adding the price to add mimosas – the classic brunch drink? And again...who asked for juice? I would prefer they give the brunch option at Sh1500, then say you can have unlimited juice if you add Sh400, like they were doing with their champagne offer. This one just doesn't make sense, particularly because the juice is supremely watered down, to keep costs down, I'm sure, even though it's supposed to be fresh. Brew, please bring back our classic brunch. Please? Hello? Anyone there?...please? *** Do you have feedback on this article? E-mail: lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com    