The National Super Alliance (Nasa) has been forced to shift the venue of a people’s assembly meeting from Migori to Homa Bay following fears that rivalry among local leaders could pour into the rally. Migori Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) Chairman Philip Makabong'o accused Governor Zachary Obado of blocking the hosting of the meeting, to be held Saturday, in the county. "Nasa leadership has transferred its people's assembly meeting which was scheduled in Migori to Homa Bay County because Governor Obado is non-committal on hosting the meeting," he said. VIOLENCE Mr Makabong'o and Suna East MP Junet Mohammed have been opposed to Mr Obado's leadership. "We feared that there could be violence just like last time when our leaders were injured in a political violence in the county," claimed Mr Makabong'o, referring to incidents last year when rallies in the county were often disrupted. However, Governor Obado, through his press unit director, Nicholas Anyuor, dismissed the claims. "Those are malicious claims and political gossip aimed at tainting Governor Obado's name," said Mr Anyuor. OPPOSITION Homa Bay ODM chairperson and Woman Representative Gladys Wanga told Nation that the coalition is preparing to hold the meeting in Homa Bay County. In Nyamira, the county government said they are ready to form people's assembly ahead of Nasa leader Raila Odinga's swearing in. Governor John Nyagarama, his deputy Amos Nyaribo and the County Assembly Majority Leader Duke Masira said they will ensure Nyamira people’s assembly, which has not been formed, will be in place before the swearing in date. However, they asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to hold talks with opposition leader to avert a political crisis that is likely to emerge during the January 30 planned swearing in. NYAMIRA The Nyamira leaders said they are working closely to have the people's assembly Bill passed in the local parliament before the end of February. The assembly is currently on recess until March 19 when it will reopen. Mr Nyagarama said President Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto should reconsider their hard stance and initiate dialogue with the opposition to end impasse for the sake of peace. Mr Nyaribo said Nasa has no option other than to swear in Mr Odinga as people’s President “since President Kenyatta doesn’t want to dialogue with the opposition for the sake of peace in the country.” The leaders spoke ahead of Nasa's rally at Gusii Stadium on Sunday.  