More than 100 traders in Voi, Taita Taveta County, are counting losses after security agencies brought down their businesses at Caltex along the Nairobi-Mombasa highway. On Saturday night, the agencies used bulldozers to destroy kiosks that were built on a road reserve. DEMOLITION Armed policemen guarded workers as they brought down the kiosks. The traders on Sunday condemned the act, saying they had not received any notice informing them to vacate the area. They also said Governor Granton Samboja had assured them that their shops would not be demolished. “I recently took a loan from a bank to pay school fees for my child and expand my business. Now I don’t know where to start,” said trader Catherine Musyoka. She said the county government had told them they would be relocated to another parcel of land. “We don’t know whether the county government is in any way linked to the demolition or not,” Ms Musyoka said.   NOTICE Trader Joseph Mwasi said the demolition has destroyed their source of livelihood. “We are shocked at the decision to bring down our businesses without giving us alternative land. Some of us have families to feed and I wonder what kind of government can do this to its people,” he said. They accused the police of unnecessary arrests, saying their colleagues were being held at Voi Police Station for unknown criminal charges. “Yesterday (Saturday) we spent most of the day at the station to demand the release of our colleagues. Surprisingly at night they came to destroy our kiosks,” said Mr Mwasi. County executive for Trade Gertrude Shuwe said the county government was not responsible for the demolition. “I will talk to the responsible authorities about it to know what to do next,” she assured the traders.   SECURITY THREAT Voi OCPD Joseph Chesire said kiosks had made the area a security threat to motorists. He said the traders had been notified of the intended demolition and had been asked to vacate. He said robbery incidents had increased in the area blaming the traders of inhabiting criminals. “We know some robbers disguise as traders. They hijack motorists who stop over to buy stuff and rob them. As security agents we cannot allow such to continue,” he said. He ordered the traders to vacate the area without resistance. “I am here to supervise the exercise. It is for the safety of residents and motorists and visitors as this is a transit town so we cannot compromise the security of this area,” he said. 
 