Oaths are not playthings to be trifled with for public amusement. They are up there with prayers and curses in the African political realm. Yet, within two days of marking the second month since that milestone, Mr Uhuru Kenyatta lifted the Bible, placed his hand on the Constitution, and swore to be President of Kenya again, Mr Raila Odinga will also seek to take an oath as the people’s president. Swearing in Mr Odinga as the people’s president will mean that Mr Kenyatta automatically becomes the president of goats, sheep, chicken and other livestock as well as inanimate objects. It is daylight robbery — and with violence. Mr Odinga fled from defeat in the October 26, 2017 presidential election, whose result gave Mr Kenyatta a 98.3 per cent (7.4 million-vote) victory over 62.5 per cent (12.2 million) who did not cast ballots, leaving no doubt as to who was in charge. IMAGINARY POSITION The act of Mr Odinga taking oath to occupy the imaginary position of people’s president very much in the fashion of Shaaban Bin Robert’s Kusadikika amounts to high treason. It is the equivalent of wishing death on, maiming or wounding the President; it is an act that seeks to imprison and restrain the President — all of them actions the law classifies as treasonable, as the Attorney General can advise at no extra charge. You cannot assume a fictitious office; take an oath that has not been crafted and thereafter pretend to adhere it. The Constitution of Kenya forbids imagination beyond its margins in unequivocal terms: “Any attempt to establish a government otherwise than in compliance with this Constitution is unlawful.” Once Mr Odinga takes oath as the people’s president, all the human beings working in government, and especially the Kenya Defence Forces, will likely realise that they are not furniture or stationery and immediately direct their loyalty and allegiance to the impostor. Mr Kenyatta will begin to feel the power leaving his body, his actions imprisoned in the vice-grip of political paralysis. UNDEMOCRATIC The crowds at his public meetings will grow thinner, and his father’s portrait will disappear from the currency. Mr Odinga will have deviously dislodged Mr Kenyatta from his style, name and honour as President, Head of State and Commander in Chief of the Kenya Defence Forces. Such an undemocratic, forcible seizure of power through violence where psychotically hypnotic civilians jump in front of bullets, body block the gravitational descent of truncheons, dunk under the gust of water cannons is an act of impunity. There are those who worry about Mr Odinga’s new address after he takes his oath. A time is fast approaching when Mr Odinga will be conducted on a familiarisation tour of the prison system to appreciate the improvements in the penal institution since he was last detained 27 years ago. PRESIDENCY Since his unceremonious departure from the prime minister’s office in March 2013, Mr Odinga has clung to power like a tick on a raw cowhide. His refusal to act honourably and hand over his crowds has made Mr Kenyatta’s a pyrrhic presidency with little power over State agencies, the military, the police, the prosecution service and the law of contracts. The oath will be the last straw. Mr Odinga’s abiding interest in electoral justice is suspect as it signals his unflagging ambition to become President of Kenya in breach of the various political pacts he has made with his National Super Alliance running-mate, Kalonzo Musyoka. This level of political dishonesty is intolerable in a constitutional democracy like Kenya. If Mr Odinga does not mend his ways, the international community will likely not stand behind him in 2022 to stop Deputy President William Ruto from ascending to power. kwamchetsi@formandcontent.co.ke  