Nairobi County Assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi on Monday said her office would work with the executive to ensure service delivery for residents. Her remarks come barely two weeks after the resignation of Governor Mike Sonko’s deputy Mr Polycap Igathe. “The assembly will help the governor to deliver on the promises he made to the people of Nairobi,” said Ms Elachi. She said the assembly had made great strides towards ensuring residents got quality services from their leaders. IFMIS “All transactions in the assembly will go through Ifmis (Integrated Financial Management Information System) portal for easy tracing of cash flow,” she said while highlighting key achievements her office had made in her first 100 days in office. According to her, this move will help in ensuring no public money is lost through dubious transactions. “When I came in, there was no Ifmis and this created room for misuse of funds meant for service delivery. We have since sealed this loophole and now we can account for every coin meant for service delivery. There is no direct handling of cash unless in the Ifmis portal,” said the Speaker. The assembly will increase training courses for members to ensure professionalism and integrity within the House. “My priority is to give members comfort and ensure they represent their constituents effectively in the House. We have started the process of capacity building for the assembly staff to ensure members fully understand the law while dispensing their duties,” she said. STAFFING Ms Elachi also said the assembly was reviewing staffing processes to ensure employees were qualified to undertake their roles. “We will bring in an independent institution to conduct job evaluation for the staff employed in the assembly. This is to ensure only qualified individuals work here,” she said. She said her office will give more focus on elected members to ensure they deliver services in their wards. “We are partnering with different institutions to go to the wards courtesy of MCAs to ensure they deliver on the promises they made there,” she said. Ms Elachi said the assembly had finished the constitution of all the required 24 committees and inducting the members on their roles, mandates and functions. “We have completed the construction of 13 state of the art committee rooms which were initiated in the last assembly and will be opening in February. We have also finished operationalisation of the members’ lounge and assembly canteen which is being operated in the former Mara restaurant,” she said.  