Four people were killed in the Lang’ata fire that broke out on Sunday night. National Disaster Management Unit Deputy Director Pius Masai and police confirmed that three bodies were recovered on Monday morning. FIRE One more body was recovered mid-morning during a search, bringing the total to four, Nairobi County police boss Japheth Koome confirmed. Earlier, Lang’ata OCPD Elijah Maina had said three people were injured and no deaths had been reported. The search and recovery at Kijiji area near Southlands Estate was still ongoing, Mr Koome said. Disaster management officials were in a meeting in the morning over the fire.   CONTAINED At 6am on Monday, the Kenya Red Cross said the fire had been contained.Police said investigations were ongoing to establish the cause of the fire. Officials were at the scene examining the extent of the blaze. Hundreds of families spent Sunday night out in the cold after their houses were razed down. "We appeal for well-wishers to bring food and non-food items to the affected families," Mr Masai said. The affected residents are camping at Ngei Primary School, where they will receive humanitarian assistance. Residents said the fire started at 8pm and spread fast, leaving hundreds homeless. Some residents could not find their children in the confusion that followed the fire outbreak. Several houses, shops and entertainment joints were reduced to ashes in the congested neighbourhood. Almost the entire informal has been destroyed by the inferno.   BLAME Residents blamed the Nairobi County Government firefighters for not containing the situation. Some residents said that the firefighters took too long to respond, and when they arrived they did not have water. "The fire engine from Nairobi County arrived here late after the damage had already been done and more so they had no water so we fail to understand why they even came here," said Mr Martin Oginga, a resident. In earlier reports, residents indicated that firefighters left the scene after their water ran out.   Fire engines ran out of water and left the scene.