Four Jubilee rebel MPs suffered a setback after they were removed from the leadership of the National Assembly committees through resolutions passed by their respective committees. The MPs Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills), Silas Tiren (Moiben), James Gakuya (Embakasi North) and Kangogo Bowen (Marakwet East) were voted out through separate votes of no confidence at Parliament buildings Tuesday. FRESH ELECTION Also removed was a Nasa MP, Bungoma Woman Representative Catherine Wambilianga, who had been elected as Mr Keter’s vice. However, the MPs could stage a comeback in the fresh elections to be conducted by next week. Mr Keter said it was a sad day in the history of the Parliament of Kenya. “It is unfortunate when you see an institution meant to be independent and play its oversight role over the executive and judiciary, get muzzled by the same executive,” Mr Keter said. The MPs were accused of finding their way into the leadership positions of their parties against the wishes of President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto. The Jubilee leadership wanted to have specific individuals to chair the committees in a resolution that was arrived at during a parliamentary group meeting at state House in December 2017 just a day before the committees’ elections. Mr Keter was elected chairman of Labour and Social Welfare committee against Bura MP Mr Ali Wario, Mr Tiren defeated Mandera South MP Adan Haji for Agriculture committee chairmanship while Mr Gakuya got elected Parliamentary Broadcasting Services leadership against the wishes of Jubilee. Mr Bowen had been elected the vice chairman of the Environment and Natural Resources committee against Ijara MP Ms Sophia Abdi. The resolutions to remove the members were passed by Jubilee MPs, who are majority in the committees. This now means that the resolutions of the committees will now be communicated to the Liaison committee, which is chaired by National Assembly deputy speaker Mr Moses Cheboi (Kuresoi North) and has membership of all the committee chairmen of standing and departmental committees. The Liaison committee shall in turn, after receiving the committees’ resolutions, direct Clerk of the National Assembly Mr Michael Sialai to call for a fresh election within seven days from the date of its communication. Leader of majority in the National Assembly Mr Aden Duale hailed the removal of the MPs saying the jubilee tide is so strong such that no one can dare go against it. “We have brought back sanity, discipline and order to the Jubilee. We want every part of the country to be represented in the parliamentary committees’ leadership,” Mr Duale, who was flanked by majority whip Mr Bernard Washiali, spoke after the process. Mr Washiali accused the MPs of chasing cheap publicity saying that they can perform proper oversight eve as members. “They are our members and we welcome them to be part of a transformation process that will make this country develop,” Mr Washiali said.   Minority Whip Junet Mohamed directs Nasa MPs not to be part of “an illegal process".