A brutal scuffle between Uasin Gishu county enforcement officers and hawkers in Eldoret town last week that led to dozens being injured has quickly mutated into a dicey political affair. Since the re-election of Governor Jackson Mandago in August last year, the county has been on the hawkers’ case.Mr Mandago’s government accuses hawkers of crowding the streets and lately, of perpetrating petty crimes, and has vowed to kick them out.However, the brawl between the two sides did not start recently. During the campaigns ahead of the elections, the hawkers were often violently evicted from the streets by county askaris in a move that was labelled politically motivated by the governor’s opponents. The routine evictions became more vicious after hawkers declared their support for one of Mr Mandago’s closest competitors, Mr Zedekiah Bundotich Buzeki. Last week’s brutal incident on a street next to the town’s main market, which was captured on video by some residents and posted on social media, was the latest indication of the bad blood between the two sides. INVESTORSDespite the outcry generated by the incident, the county has vowed not to relent in pushing out the hawkers, saying they were making the town dirty and unattractive to potential investors. According to the county government, kicking out hawkers was the only way to restructure the town’s central business district (CBD). Uasin Gishu Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno dismissed claims that the county government was profiling hawkers from certain communities. He said that regular operations by the county inspectorate team and other security agencies were aimed at flushing out bad elements engaging in illegal activities, including selling of illicit brews and bhang.He said the county had built two markets in Kahoya and Eldoret West, where the hawkers ought to operate from. “Let them know that our decision to remove hawkers from the town streets is unstoppable. What was the meaning of setting up a multi-million market from which we cannot raise any revenues because hawkers have avoided it and resorted to selling their wares on roadsides, causing inconvenience to motorists?” asked Mr Chemno. EXCESSIVE FORCEBut the hawkers say the two markets are far from town, and, therefore, difficult for them to get customers.The county hawkers’ chairperson, Mr David Waweru, says the markets were not enough to accommodate the more than 6,000 hawkers in the county.“These markets are far away from the CBD; that is the reason most of the hawkers are not comfortable using them ... they are located far away from their customers,” said Mr Waweru. A hawker, Ms Jane Atieno, accused the regional government of allowing the inspectorate officers and other security agencies to use excessive force on the traders. “The Constitution is very clear that every citizen has a right to work and live anywhere. We cannot engage in illegal activities because we have children to take care of. We want to be allowed to work freely,” said Ms Atieno. One of the new markets, which was constructed at a cost of Sh150 million, has 311 stalls. Mr Chemno accused some political leaders in the county of inciting the hawkers with the intention of portraying the county government as targeting non-locals. INCITING HAWKERSIn an interview with the Nation, Mr Chemno accused Huruma Ward MCA Peter Chomba of inciting the hawkers, to gain political mileage. But in a quick rejoinder, Mr Chomba dismissed the claims, and said he will move a motion in the county assembly to compel the regional government to overhaul the inspectorate team.Mr Chomba, elected on a Jubilee ticket, said traders were living in fear of harassment by the officers. “The county askaris have become a nuisance in this town. Even visitors are afraid of coming to our town as they fear they may be harassed. I will move a motion in the county assembly once we resume so that we can overhaul the whole team,” said Mr Chomba.According to the MCA, the officers were out to frustrate a certain community. “This is a malicious team that is out to profile and harass members of a given community. Every Kenyan has a right to live and work anywhere.” ETHNIC PROFILINGHe denied claims that he was blocking hawkers from moving to the new markets.The latest turn of events may jeopardise Deputy President William Ruto’s efforts to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022. A section of Jubilee leaders from Nakuru County have warned that the hawkers’ issue will derail the DP’s 2022 presidential bid if not checked, and are calling on the DP to intervene in the matter.Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri was on Sunday categorical that the DP, who comes from Uasin Gishu County, had no option but to intervene on the issue. “DP Ruto should not allow Governor (Jackson) Mandago to come between us. He should instead come out and speak about this ethnic profiling,” said Mr Ngunjiri.Mr Ruto has, however, not commented on the issue since it was reported. The Nakuru leaders claim that Mr Mandago was marginalising certain communities by denying them resources, for political reasons, a claim that has been rubbished by Mr Mandago’s administration.Other Nakuru County leaders, among them Governor Lee Kinyanjui, have accused their Uasin Gishu counterparts of ethnic profiling. TRIBALISM“This issue should not come between us and Deputy President William Ruto to spoil the DP’s votes in 2022. We should not allow our Jubilee Party to be brought down by issues that we ourselves can solve,” said Mr Kinyanjui on Sunday. “We have your people here in Nakuru and all we want is you to treat our people in Uasin Gishu the same way we are treating yours instead of profiling and harassing them. That is not the kind of politics we want in this country.” Mr Chemno has asked Nakuru leaders to stop meddling in Uasin Gishu County affairs, saying the devolved unit is not an extension of another county. “Other political leaders from other counties should stop meddling with issues of Uasin Gishu since they are bringing issues of tribalism, which the country is trying to shun, day in day out,” said Mr Chemno.  