Going by the number of strikers signed by clubs this transfer period, the new season that kicks off on Saturday promises to be an explosive affair. League champions Gor Mahia and their arch-rivals AFC Leopards had shipped in strikers from as far as Ghana, Cote d’Ivoire and Nigeria ahead of the transfer market closure on Wednesday at midnight. Title hopefuls Sofapaka, Ulinzi and Tusker too, significantly invested in big-name strikers, revealing their hand as far as their ambitions are concerned this season. Despite scoring 53 times - the most in the league last season - and still having the likes of deadly Rwandan duo Meddie Kagere and Jacques Tuyisenge in their ranks, Gor still splashed a reported Sh1 million to lure Ivorian Ephrem Guikan from under the noses of Tusker in December. Guikan, who’s represented Cote d’Ivoire at youth level, comes in with an impressive resume. The 25-year-old not only scored the three goals that helped Mauritius side AS Port Louis eliminate Tusker from the Caf Africa Champions League last year,  he also found the back of the net 10 times in the Mauritius league, helping AS Port Louis finish second in the competition. “He is a courageous and intelligent lad who will contribute much more than just goals and assists. I am happy to have him here,” said Gor coach Dylan Kerr. Ghanaian forwards Eric Bekoe and Prince Papa Arkoh were drafted in by Leopards in deals that have left the club’s supporters dripping with excitement. Arkoh joins from Sekondi Hasaacas in his homeland, while Bekoe is a veteran, having represented the Black Stars plus Hearts of Lions, Berekum Chelsea and Egyptian side Petrojet in the recent past. “We have a good history with Ghanaian strikers. That’s why I am sure these two will continue from where (former striker Gilbert) Fiamenyo left,” said Leopards chairman Dan Mule. SIGNED A THREE-YEAR DEAL Former Gor Mahia forward Timothy Otieno is primed to lead Tusker’s strike force having signed a three-year deal with the brewers. Ulinzi have also drafted in youngster Masita Masuta from Nzoia Sugar while Stephen Waruru, who is the subject of an ownership tussle between Tusker and Sofapaka, will, for sure, score goals wherever he will be based. Proven goal-getter Kepha Aswani has transferred from Nakumatt to title hungry Sofapaka.   The venue remains the same, Bukhungu Stadium in Kakamega.