Kenyan champions Gor Mahia will be unleashing their Ivorian “goal machine” Ephrem Guikan when they face their Ugandan counterparts Kampala City Council Authority (KCCA) at Afraha Stadium from 3pm on Saturday in a high profile friendly match. Both teams are using the game as build up for the African Champions League whose preliminary round begins early next month. K’Ogalo have been paired against Equatorial Guinea’s Leones Vegetarianos while KCCA are drawn against Madagascan side CNaPS. Said Gor assistant coach Zedekiah Otieno: “We have been together for about five weeks now and it is important to measure the players’ readiness. It is also a good chance to evaluate the new players in a competitive match.” K’Ogalo will parade seven new faces including Kenya international Samuel Onyango, ex-Tusker duo Cersidy Lumumba and Humphrey Mieno as well as Guikan who has impressed in training with his goal productivity. For the first time in almost a decade, defender Musa Mohammed will not be part of Gor squad. He is chasing a deal with Albanian club KF Tirana. KCCA on the other hand are missing four key players currently on international duty with Uganda Cranes in the African Nations Championships in Morocco. The four are Benjamin Ochan, Isaac Mulume, Sadaam Juma and star striker Derrick Nsibambi. KCCA coach Mike Mutebi will field a new look squad that will have the likes of Solomon Okwalinga formerly from Mbarara City, Thomas Ikara (Kirinya Jinja), Hassan Musana (Bull FC), Matsiko Abubakari (Katale Soccer Club), Steven Sserwadda and Herbert Achai from the KCCA junior team. Mutebi said his ambition was to reach the Champions’ League group stage. “That is why we have recruited a number of experienced players and we are playing several games against top foreign teams here in Kenya,” he said. KCCA arrived in Nakuru on Friday. Gor coach Dylan Kerr said their key objective was to master their opponents’ tactics with diligence, saying they would ensure they fulfilled their supporters’ expectations. The team has been training at the Egerton University’s main campus over the last few days and moved around various primary schools to motivate young talents. Friday evening, they paid a courtesy call to the Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui, who promised to develop the county’s sports infrastructure so as nurture more talents. “We value sports and want to position this county as a favourable spot for big teams to train. We have a lot of talented players that can go far if they get the necessary support,” Kinyanjui said.   KCCA will play Kenyan champions Gor Mahia at the Afraha stadium on Saturday.