Opinion is divided in the National Assembly whether to allow MPs who were de-whipped from their respective House committees to attend an induction workshop to boost the understanding of what is required of them. Whereas Majority Leader Aden Duale and Majority Whip Ben Washiali have stated that the MPs will not be allowed to attend the training because they are no longer members of the committees, House Clerk Michael Sialai said that they will attend as long as the court order is still in place. “As far as we are concerned, those MPs are no longer members in those committees. They stand de-whipped and will not attend meetings of committees for which they are not party to. That’s is the Jubilee position,” Mr Duale, who is Garissa Township MP, said. WROTE TO SPEAKER Mr Washiali, the MP for Mumias East, who wrote to House Speaker Justin Muturi of Jubilee’s decision to withdraw the members from their committees, said, “We gave them enough time but they never responded to the letter we sent them.” The MPs Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills), Silas Tiren (Moiben), Kangogo Bowen (Marakwet East), Alex Kosgey (Emgwen) and James Gakuya (Embakasi North), were de-whipped from their committees in December 2017 after they contested and won slots in their committees against the choices of their party leadership. However, the removal was suspended by the High Court in Nairobi pending the hearing and determination of a case they filed. According to standing orders, all the committee chairpersons as well as a member of the Speaker’s panel are members of the Liaison committee, which is chaired by the Deputy Speaker. If the MPs are not trained in their committees, it means that they will not be allowed to take part in the induction for members of the Liaison committee, which has now been postponed indefinitely. The committee, among other responsibilities, is tasked with guiding and coordinating operations, policies and mandates of all committees, apportioning budget among the committees as well as ensuring that the committees discharge their mandates in line with the law. COURT ORDER Mr Sialai Tuesday said that as long as the court order prohibiting the Jubilee party from discharging the members from their committees stands, there is nothing that Parliament can do to lock the members out. “Those de-whipped will still attend the training for their respective committees. Parliament is bound by the court order,” Mr Sialai said. Mr Keter won the chairmanship of Labour and Social Welfare committee against his Jubilee party’s choice of Bura MP Ali Wario while Mr Tiren beat Mandera South MP Adan Haji Ali for the leadership of the Agriculture committee. Mr Bowen defeated Ijara MP Sophia Abdi who was Jubilee choice for the vice chairperson of the Environment and Natural Resources committee. Mr Kosgey was de-whipped despite losing the leadership of Trade, Industry and Cooperatives committee to Kieni MP Kanini Kega, who had the blessings of his party. Mr Gakuya also went against the grain to be elected chairman of the Parliamentary Broadcasting and Library committee.  