Q.I recently had an interview with a publication company. The hiring manager was very easy to talk to. He made me feel calm during the interview and I was able to give it my best. At the end of the interview however, he surprised me by saying, “I only hire people that I can have a beer with”. I just smiled and let it go. I haven’t heard from him since. I think he was only verbalising what many managers must think -- that the best people to hire are those they can hang out with socially. What do you think about that standard?  There is no standard here. I am yet to come across a job that requires an employee to have a beer with their boss, so for him to say, “I only hire people I can have a beer with” is highly unprofessional. The good interview you had just given and were feeling very confident about was reduced to a statement that has no reference whatsoever to the competencies of the role. Do not defend his action as ‘verbalising’ what managers think when hiring. Managers may find it awkward and unprofessional to ask questions that tend to suggest interference with a candidate’s personal space, but yet long to know if there would be room for flexibility to accommodate out of work demands. There are ways of dealing with this, like asking appropriate questions such as, “This role requires some flexibility, which may include occasional informal gathering after work, would that be a problem for you?” Or “My team likes to hangout once in a while to reflect and catch up in an informal setting, is that something you would be open to?” This way, it is more about the team, not a drink with the boss. And in any case, hanging out is not always about drinking beer, you can play games or watch sports. There are smart ways to answer such odd statements to demonstrate you are up to the challenge. Smiling and letting go as you did shows indifference, and can be understood to mean yes and no. You could refocus your answer in favour of informal team gatherings and say that you have always found them a good way to create better synergy within a team. Showing preference to gatherings that include the team as a whole is likely to dissuade any sexual innuendos and emphasise your values.  