Kariobangi Sharks have started the process of building a side without their star striker Masoud Juma. The 2017 Kenyan Premier League Golden Boot winner moved to South Africa’s Premier Soccer League side Cape Town City earlier this month in a lucrative move that earned Sharks some Sh11 million. And with that war chest, Sharks have quickly roped in 11 players, three of them strikers. Kariobangi Sharks coach William Muluya exuded confidence they would emulating their fine run last season in both the Kenyan Premier League and the GOtv Shield. “It’s a good challenge because it opens up a way for another person to try fill up his (Juma) shoes. We’ve acquired few strikers we believe will come up and partner Sanneh (Ebrima) and Ovellah (Ochieng’) whom we had from last season,” said Muluya after Thursday’s morning training session at Utalii Sports Club. Muluya, who guided the team to a third place finish in the KPL and runners up in the GOtv Shield to earn the league’s Coach of the Year award added: “If they step up and play as a unit, we will overcome the challenge. Last year, we had one person with 17 goals and he left for greener pastures so we need to distribute those goals amongst other players.” "That will only come if everyone works hard and I’m sure with players we have now, they will share responsibility and help the team.” The new faces are Brian Bwire, James Mazembe and Henry Juma (Kakamega High school), Sydney Simale (Nakuru AllStars), Brian Juma (Liberty Sports Academy), Vincent Wasambo and Samuel Semo (recalled from loan at FC Talanta), Harrison Mwendwa (Mathare United), Eric Kapaito (FC Talanta), Gad Matthews (Palos) and Shaphan Oyugi (Chemelil Sugar). The 11 that have left are Masoud Juma (Cape Town City, South Africa), Matthew Odongo (Tusker), Elli Asieche and Ibrahim Kitawi (Sofapaka), Osborne Monday and Calvin Odongo (Posta Rangers), Rodgers Omondi, Malcom Oigo, Steven Odhiambo, Newton Mugo and Kevin Ndung’u.   KCCA will play Kenyan champions Gor Mahia at the Afraha stadium on Saturday.