Deputy President William Ruto on Saturday denied claims that there is a rift between him and President Uhuru Kenyatta over the formation of the Cabinet. “You will not see us dragging ourselves into these petty political issues about who will get what position,” Mr Ruto said on Saturday. He was speaking in Gathiru-ini village in Githunguri, Kiambu County, during the burial of Mama Alice Wambui, the mother of Mount Kenya University founder and chairman Simon Gicharu. The DP said Jubilee is determined to unite all Kenyans. “We will not waste time on debates on political issues and issues of power as well as positions,” he said. There have been claims that President Kenyatta has delayed naming his full Cabinet because of the DP’s alleged unhappiness with the list. But on Saturday the DP assured that all is well between him and his boss. Mr Ruto also asked Jubilee leaders to go slow on the 2022 succession debate, which has divided Mt Kenya leaders on whether Mr Ruto should automatically get the region’s support. BE PATIENT “Let us focus on implementing Jubilee’s manifesto. We (leaders) should be patient with issues and with one another. Let us not rush issues,” he said. Before Mr Ruto spoke during the funeral, leaders from Kiambu sought to assure him of their unconditional support in his bid to succeed President Kenyatta. Kiambu County Governor Ferdinand Waititu said the 2022 arrangements were made in 2013 with a deal that saw Mr Ruto back President Kenyatta, and maintained that it must be honoured. “Those saying that discussions will have to be held about the 2022 election should know that the deal was sealed in 2013 when we agreed that we will back Uhuru for 10 years and after that we will back Ruto for 10 years,” he said. “That issue is not out of the picture and the only thing we will deal with is on the running mate.” Senator Kimani Wamatangi, who also chided the opposition over their sustained position on the swearing-in of Raila Odinga, told Mr Ruto to focus on serving Kenyans and should not be dissuaded or distracted by any political power plays since he had earned the support of Mount Kenya region. ODINGA OATH Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja also said the planned swearing-in of Mr Odinga was inconsequential Githunguri MP Kago wa Lydia said Mount Kenya region will automatically back Mr Ruto in 2022, while County Assembly Speaker Stephen Ndichu said the region owes Mr Ruto and the “debt” must be paid. Other leaders who were present included MPs Ng’ang’a King’ara (Ruiru), Amos Kimunya (Kipipiri), Patrick Wainaina (Thika Town), Jude Njomo (Kiambu Town) and Kimani Ichungwa (Kikuyu). At the same time, Mr Ruto warned politicians ejecting secondary school principals posted in schools in their respective areas during the recent mass transfer, terming the act as tribal, petty and retrogressive. “Teachers will serve anywhere and that’s why we have said that it’s not a must for a principal to serve in his ethnic region. We will not allow leaders to play tribal politics with our schools,” Mr Ruto said.   
  
President was categorical on the Cabinet Secretaries he had retained and this left many guessing on fate of others.