Jubilee, for sure, is losing steam. Why create a huge fuss over a mere 22 names by dragging out the announcement for so long? Even when one considers the complex interests to be catered for, Uhuru Kenyatta’s long delay in naming a full cabinet has shown him as indecisive. Moreover, the full team of cabinet administrative secretaries and permanent secretaries remains to be named. This new-fangled position of CAS needs to be properly explained. It ranks just below CS and above the PS, and its functions are not clearly defined. Is it like an assistant minister? I suspect it was dreamed up to accommodate the many cabinet candidates Uhuru was juggling but had no room for. This new portfolio will smoothen the work of CS, or risk igniting unwanted bureaucratic rivalries in ministries. The whole cabinet formation was done in a rather amateurish way. How does it look when you initially confirm six of the original CSs, by which you imply you had dropped the other 13, then you turn around and say they have not been fired, and then you re-hire some of them? This is where I fault Uhuru’s judgement most. CASTE SYSTEM Couldn’t he make up his mind? What would you think if you had been left out in the first team even though you got rehired? Won’t this promote a sort of caste system in the cabinet? And what the heck is a CS who serves on “a need basis”? What is that? Even after Raphael Tuju had worked his rump out for Jubilee? Or perhaps he was not given a portfolio because Jubilee feel they still need him in the party office? Amina Mohammed, whose omission from the first cabinet announcement had provoked popular dismay, has been taken to Education. Though her previous posting, Foreign Affairs, has all the glamour, her new portfolio is actually more important and has one of the largest budgetary allocations in government. The choice of John Munyes of Turkana for the new Petroleum ministry was an inspired one, for obvious reasons. TECHNOCRAT Mwangi Kiunjuri, the politician from Laikipia, got the prized docket of Agriculture. I don’t know why Uhuru thinks so highly of this CS. It is true he speaks superbly idiomatic Kikuyu (and muddled English and Swahili), but he comes across more as a political huckster than a technocrat. My view is that he would be more at home in a political job at Jubilee Party headquarters. Some members of the Nandi community sounded very aggrieved for the “loss” of the Agriculture docket, formerly held by Willy Bett, which for some odd reason they consider to be their due. Ah, and behold Nelson Marwa, the tough-talking Coast Commissioner. He deserves the promotion to Devolution PS after his years of heavy lifting for the government in the rabidly Oppositionist Coast region. There was a widespread feeling he should have been taken to the Interior docket while Fred Matiang’i was left to continue cleaning up the cartel-ridden Education ministry. ONE THIRD And why keep the low-keyed Raychelle Omamo in Defence? She looks very out of place surrounded by all those uniformed generals. Why not swing her a less macho ministry like Health or East African Community? Talking of which, women have a quarrel with Uhuru. His six female appointees are short of the constitutionally set minimum of one third. I wouldn’t give Uhuru a pass grade. As he dithered over the cabinet composition, I imagined a stellar team was being put together that would elevate his administration to another level. A Dream Team. The choices may not be incompetent, but none really sparkles, like Tom Mboya did during the regime of Uhuru’s father. Maybe to bring up the name Mboya is to raise the bar too high. Still, Uhuru needed one or two superstars like that to blaze his legacy team. What he has given us is more of the same. His body language acknowledged as much. Warigi is a socio-political commentator gitauwarigi@yahoo.com   This new-fangled position of CAS needs to be properly explained.