National Super Alliance (Nasa) has said it will ask the International Criminal Court (ICC) to start investigations into the alleged profiling and killing of its supporters. While maintaining that the planned swearing in of Nasa leader Raila Odinga is still on course, Kakamega Senator Cleopas Malala said they will process and file a petition, using the Nasa affidavit, to the UN Security Council, AU Assembly, and the European Union. PRODUCTS BOYCOTT At the same time, Nasa has extended its boycott of products to Haco Tiger Industries. Self-declared National Resistance Movement general Miguna Miguna made the announcement on Wednesday. Nasa MPs has also listed Safaricom, Bidco and Brookside as some of the firms whose products and services their supporters should boycott. "The effect of these boycotts is being felt everywhere," Mr Miguna said during a press conference at Okoa Kenya Offices in Lavington, Nairobi. AFFIDAVIT Nasa will also on Friday publish a list of members who do not pledge allegiance to Mr Odinga by signing an affidavit that is in circulation. "We have postponed the naming of those party members who have not signed the swearing-in affidavit. They have until Friday to do so or we will reveal their names," Senator Malala said. And while speaking at Whitesands Beach Hotel in Mombasa, Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa said Nasa expects more than 10,000 supporters to attend the swearing-in ceremony of Mr Odinga and Mr Musyoka.   UHURU PARK “The plans are at an advanced stage and I want to announce to our supporters that the swearing-in will take place. “In terms of venue, we have a committee that is handling the matter. But as far as we are concerned the venue is Uhuru Park,” Dr Wamalwa said. “The Nairobi business community can find another venue like Uhuru Gardens, Murang’a or change to another date. People have started booking buses in readiness for the ceremony,” he added. He was speaking during the closure of the three-day Public Accounts Committee, Public Investment Committee and Special Funds Account induction retreat. However, Jubilee MPs urged police to ensure law, order and peace is maintained in Nairobi on January 30 to avoid any clashes. MEDICAL CAMP Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro said Nairobi business community members and some politicians have booked Uhuru Park for a free medical camp targeting street families. “These are plans we had since December last year because we care for street families. There will be no swearing-in because Kenya has moved on from politics. We call upon all stakeholders including the opposition to join hands in building the nation,” said Mr Nyoro. He said they had booked the venue and even paid Sh250,000 to the city county government. Mr Nyoro said more than 5,000 people are expected to attend and receive free medical services.   PARK RENOVATION “Booking of public grounds has its own rules – first come first served. I am surprised that Nairobi City County is purposely renovating the venue just on the date we had booked to conduct the camp. We want the county inspectorate and police to protect us during our medical camp,” said Mr Nyoro. He urged Nasa leaders to book another venue, either in Kisumu or Mombasa, for their ceremony. “During weekends most of the grounds are usually busy with church activities like crusades. If they are lucky they will get another venue but Uhuru Park is booked for our medical camp targeting street families,” he added. Bumula MP Moses Wekesa Mabonga appealed to opposition leader and President Uhuru Kenyatta to dialogue. “I appeal to the leaders of both divides – it’s time to be serious – have dialogue and move forward,” he said. Shinyalu MP Justus Kizito insisted that Mr Odinga will be sworn in. “No dialogue. Time has lapsed. Jubilee is scared; that is why you are hearing issues of renovation or business community (meeting). But let them know that a venue is not important. What is important is the will to swear in Mr Odinga as the president,” said Mr Kizito.   Public park to remain out of bound until further notice, Nairobi County government says.