Greetings and Happy New Year, coach, and congratulations on your emphatic return to the Den with a Cup - the GOtv Shield that you delivered last year. I also wish to grab this chance to welcome you back home after successful spells at Tusker and Ulinzi Stars. I would however like to bring to your attention a few things Leopards fans have been wishing for over the years. As you are already aware coach, the club, the oldest in the top division, has in the last two decades become a laughing stock. The despair, hopelessness and sleepless nights we go through as Leopards fans have hit a crescendo. We have no peace coach. Our hopes and dreams of lifting the league title have been shattered mercilessly for the last 20 years. We weep every season. We mourn for our team Matano. Please, whatever you have to do, just bring home the Kenyan Premier League this year. Matano, it has not been easy. From the constant change of coaches and players every other season to in-house politics, it has been problems galore at the Den. The effects being diminishing numbers in the stands every season. The pain and frustration that comes with seeing our noisy neighbours in green dominate the local league is no longer bearable coach. Being mocked by those people with taunts like “you are just mere participants in the league” hurt to the bones. NO HISTORY It is embarrassing when new teams with no history walk all over us each season. Teams with a handful of fans in the stands every match day winning titles as we watch in envy. Can you imagine the last time we won the league Daniel arap Moi was still president, there was no Facebook, MPESA and other social media sites? Most of us were still young kids and we did not watch the players who led us to the title – our 13th and last. All we do is ride on past glory that we never witnessed. This year coach, all we are asking for is our own glory. Our trophy. Our pride. Please restore our dignity by bringing back our lost glory. We've gone through a lot in the recent past which has drained off all our energy. Kindly remind the players that the fans have suffered for 20 years. Some members of the squad were not born when we last won the league - that's how serious the situation is. We want every league match to be played like a final. Please, just bring us the league title. As we begin the 2018 campaign and transverse the country in search for points, just remember the fans are hurting and crying. We are desperate to lift that KPL title. Can you imagine how beautiful that trophy would look with blue and white ribbons around it? We believe you are the right man do the job. You have done it before with other teams and you will do it with the Leopards. You have a capable technical bench, quality players that you have overseen their recruitment and our unwavering support. Go for it Matano, do it for us. Let this year be the year the Lion leads the Leopards to the title. All the best coach, Nothing is Impossible. #ShienyuNiShienyu   Why is the club in and out of debt every season?