Covered in a scarf to keep the night cold at bay, clutching a tin of sweets and groundnuts, a young girl, accosts Nairobi residents making their way home from work. Once she has marked her target, a middle age man, *Linet resolutely follows him. She expertly sidesteps throngs of people and dodges impatient motorists, and intercepts him, pleading with him to buy her groundnuts, or at least part with loose change.  Persuasive, bold and street-smart are all qualities embodied by Linet. But at roughly six years, she is too young to navigate the city streets at night by herself.  AIR OF INNOCENCE Linet, however, sells her wares with an air of innocence and a sense of duty, oblivious of the danger of possible kidnapping, sexual abuse and other evils that lurk in the town centre at night. Her mother, a physically challenged middle-aged woman, sits a stone’s throw away at the sidewalk along Kenyatta Avenue, hoping to sell the fruits neatly arranged on a sack.  She is also attending to her months-old baby, keeping a hawk’s-eye on her daughter at the same time. Occasionally, she calls out to Linet, warning her from wandering too far from her sight. Linet’s family ekes out a living from the bustle of street activity, selling small wares and begging for alms.  In Roysambu, at the outskirts of the city centre, as people have lunch at a fast-food eatery on a Saturday afternoon, two young girls enter the restaurant. They move from table to table, showing patrons a form asking for contributions.  They studiously avoid the gaze of the fuming attendants. The money, they explain, is to support the children’s home where they live. While the patrons are somewhat vexed by this nuisance, the youngsters’ nervous courage, if not their pitifully emaciated looks, goad them to reach into their pockets.  They hand them some money before turning their attention back to their repast and talks. They don’t bother to sign their names on the form.Children begging in food kiosks and restaurants is now an everyday affair in Kenya.  OFFENSIVE SMELL Elsewhere, in Ngong town, as passengers scramble to board a bus to the city centre on a Wednesday morning, a dishevelled boy, who is about 10 years, sits easy in the bus, watching as commuters take their seats.  When the conductor starts collecting bus fare from the passengers, he spots *Ben. He reprimands him briefly, wondering what he is doing on the bus, and then proceeds to collect money.  Moments later, Ben begins to beg for “bus fare” to travel to his home in Mwingi. He says that he has been sent away by his aunt who lives at Kiserian, explaining to indifferent passengers that he has been living with his aunt since he was orphaned two years ago. From the offensive smell ensuing from his grimy body, it is hard to believe that the boy has been living in any sort of home.  Some passengers still give him money, more to escape his nuisance than out of compassion. Others resolutely dismiss his plight, and do not care to lift their eyes from their smartphones. Mercy Nduta, a regular commuter between the city and Ngong town, says she has known the boy for nearly two years now.  “He keeps telling this false story,” Nduta says, adding that sometimes, the bus attendants allow Ben and other boys like him to borrow money from travellers while at other times, they are not allowed into the buses.  CRAFTY ADULTS  Juvenile beggars have been in the city for some time now, most of whom are exploited by crafty adults, who have ‘employed’ them to beg. In the evening, these innocent children hand over the day’s collection to these conmen, who then ‘pay’ them a fraction from the collection.  This, and the two other scenarios elicit a number of fundamental questions about the welfare of such children in Kenya. Do they go to school? When do they play like their fellow children? How safe are these minors in the streets?  There was a time when there were no child beggars on our streets, now they seem to be even more than the adult beggars that dot our streets, which begs the question - is Kenya raising a generation of professional beggars?  The Children’s Act stipulates in sections 6, 7, 8 and 9 the rights of children, which include the right to parental care, education, religious education and healthcare.  Section 10 of the Act states that “every child shall be protected from economic exploitation” and from “any work that is likely to be hazardous.” This protection extends to all forms of work likely to “interfere with the child’s education”, work that is “harmful to the child’s health or physical, mental, spiritual, moral or social development”.  Despite the clarity of this law, underage children have been turned into caregivers, they generate income for their families and raise money for real or imagined causes, often by manipulating the empathy, or guilt, of Kenyans. Naturally, children’s homes should protect children who come from abusive homes, or are orphaned, for instance. Oddly enough though, some of these institutions order their wards to raise money for the facility and their hazy projects.  CRIMINAL LIABILITY“Most of the children’s homes perpetuating this illegality are run by unscrupulous individuals who are out to exploit the vulnerability of these children for their own selfish gains,” says Rose Mbanya, the Nairobi branch convenor of the Family Bar-Bench committee in the Law Society of Kenya. Such practice, she argues, punches holes in their integrity. She explains: “Using minors to fundraise for any project is illegal. Such institutions are, therefore, criminally liable under Section 10 of the Children’s Act which prohibits child labour. It also raises legitimacy questions on the said projects.” She adds: “To operate in Kenya, children’s homes must be registered with the Director of Children’s Services. The director is mandated by the Children’s Act to supervise any such facility’s operations.”  Exploitation of children in Kenya, nonetheless, occurs under the noses of children welfare groups, county authorities and the national government.  Judy Thongori, a family lawyer and rights activist, attributes the menace of child labour and street begging to poverty among most Kenyan families.  “Every parent desires the best for their child. By the time a parent decides to send his or her child to the streets to beg for alms, it could just be that the parent has exhausted all possible avenues to raise income for support of his or her children,” Thongori says. To plug the nuisance of children beggars in the streets, the government must address the root of the problem, which, according to Thongori, is the poor state of the country’s economy. She argues: “When the economy is good and every family is stable financially, no one would want to have their own begging in the streets.” Besides poverty, ignorance of children’s rights, greed and negligence by the society are the other factors cited by children’s rights activists as fuelling economic exploitation of minors in Kenya.  DISABLED CHILDRENDisabled child beggars are a common scene in most towns in Kenya. Their families dump them in the streets in the morning to beg from strangers all day, and fetch them at dusk. This exposes the children to hostile weather, abuse from strangers and even the danger of abduction.  On any given day, Tom Mboya Street in Nairobi alone is frequented by more than five physically or mentally disabled children beggars. They have to crawl to shelter to escape the baking sun, while avoiding being run over by motorists. “The Children’s Act guarantees the right for special care, education and dignity for children living with disabilities,” Mbanya points out.  In what fits the bill of tragic irony, some families treat a disabled child as an asset for income generation. Such children are consigned to begging for life.  Sometimes, child labour takes the form of criminal activities, where perpetrators use their underage subjects to commit illegalities such as trafficking of illegal drugs and contrabands on their behalf. In November last year, Nairobi Governor, Mike Sonko, said that hotels in the city were paying street boys to collect garbage from their premises and dump it along city lanes. The hotels, according to the governor, having been taking the easy route of getting rid of their refuse by exploiting the minors and paying them peanuts.  Children are hardly ever targeted during police crackdowns on drugs and other criminal activities. Coupled with their ignorance (they lack the understanding that what they are being asked to do is illegal), they make an easy target for their exploiters.  With the promise of a small tip, food or protection, the children will gladly undertake any task given to them.  According to Lucy Ondari, a teacher and a paralegal at CRADLE, The Children Foundation, sexual exploitation against underage girls is widespread in counties in the Nyanza region, especially in communities living along the shores of Lake Victoria.  “Fishermen are the main culprits. They coerce schoolgirls to have sex with them in return for fish, because most of them come from poor families that cannot afford a meal. Sometimes they offer them nothing,” says Ondari. ABUSED BY FISHERMEN Mbita, Chindo and Kirindo areas of Homabay County lead in cases of sexual exploitation of school girls due to high poverty levels, says Ondari, who has worked as a paralegal for 30 years. “Between 2016 and 2017, we rescued 17 schoolgirls who were being sexually abused by fishermen in Mbita,” she recalls. “Fifteen of them were in primary school while two were in secondary school. We took them back to school and reported the criminals to the police,” In one particularly upsetting case, Ondari and her fellow paralegals rescued a schoolgirl who had been taken hostage by four fishermen, who would regularly sexually abuse her.  She and her team occasionally have to deal with hostile molesters who confront them for exposing them. “Relatives of the victims are also not always cooperative. Sometimes they accuse us of ruining their family’s reputation,” she says. Compromised police officers and chiefs are also an impediment in cases of sexual exploitation of minors. “Pursuing justice for the victims depends almost entirely on the goodwill of the parties involved, and when local authorities are bribed, they stop cooperating with us, leading to delayed investigation processes. This frustrates efforts to seek justice for the victims,” says Ondari.  As one who’s job is to fight for children’s rights and get them justice, Ondari, believes that existing laws on protection of children in Kenya are sufficient. “What we need are strict enforcement measures where the police, paralegals, parents and the society cooperate in the fight against exploitation of children,” she says.  EXPLICIT FORMS While armed conflict is not common here as it is in neighbouring countries where minors are recruited by rebel guerrillas to fight for them, among communities that still practice cattle rustling, children are taught how to carry out raids - these teenagers are denied a chance to go to school, and therefore robbed of a bright future.  Child labour is frowned upon in most quarters, especially when it takes more explicit forms, such as employment in factories. Mbanya, however, notes that child labour is even more rampant in homes where children are required to do domestic work, such as household chores.  “Children from rural areas are made to work in the family farm, tilling, weeding or gathering crop produce,” she says. She observes that while assisting with chores at home is not prohibited by law, parents and guardians must be careful not to overwork their children. Article 30 of the Constitution in part 1 and 2 prohibits slavery, servitude and forced labour. In most instances, however, minors do not have a say when it comes to domestic work.  The introduction of Free Primary Education (FPE) in 2003 promoted enrolment in primary schools. It also minimised the erstwhile high rate of school dropout.  When the government starts implementing free secondary education this year, school dropout cases are expected to drop further. But a Nation Newsplex report in 2016 painted a rather grim picture of the fruits of free primary education. Only two out of five learners enrolled in Class One go all the way to Form Four.  READ: Only two out of five students reach Form Four According to the report, the majority of these dropouts, are “thrust into a harsh world without life-saving education and marketable skills.” Consequently, they become an easy target for cheap labour, and sometimes forced labour, for lack of employable skills.  
  
There’s a weary look about him, which is intensified by the premature wrinkles that line his face, aging him even more. 