President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday announced the creation of a new position of Chief Administrative Secretary (CAS) in all the ministries. The creation of the position is widely seen as an easier avenue of rewarding most of his lieutenants, whom he had promised slots in the Cabinet. He, however, did not name all the CAS, promising to nominate them at a later date. The President said the move was to make the operations of the government efficient as well as taking into account the need of having a government that reflects the diversity of the nation. President Kenyatta said the persons he named to his Cabinet will help him deliver on his mandate, which he pledged during the campaign period. “Having consulted the constitutional mandated body and receiving advice from the Public Service Commission as required by article (132) (4A) of our Constitution, I have decided to establish a new position in government, the position of Chief Administrative Secretary in all our ministries,” he said. NEW POSITION The President said the new CASs would broadly be responsible for helping Cabinet secretaries to better coordinate the running of the affairs of their respective ministries. Notable appointees to the new position include Ms Racheal Shebesh, who lost the race for Nairobi Woman Rep to Nasa’s Esther Passaris. She has been nominated to  the Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs. Ms Winnie Guchu, who was the deputy chief agent for President Kenyatta during the August 8 General Election, was also named as CAS in the Ministry of Water. Former Kisii Senator Chris Obure, former Kisumu Town MP Ken Obura and former Budalang’i MP Ababu Namwamba have been appointed for the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure Development, the Ministry of East African Community and Northern Corridor Development and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Trade respectively. Former West Pokot Governor Simon Kachapin was also named the CAS in the Ministry of Education. TREASURY Former Tana River Governor Hussein Dado was named the CAS in the Ministry of Devolution and ASAL areas. Former Subukia MP Nelson Gaichuhie was named the CAS in the National Treasury, while former Narok South MP Patrick Ntutu has been nominated as CAS in the Ministry of Interior. Mr Rashid Aman was named CAS in the Ministry of Health while former Malindi MP Gideon Mung’aro has been named the CAS in the Ministry of Lands. Mr Abdul Bahari has been named the CAS Labour and Social Protection. Other than the CAS, some ministries have more than two Permanent Secretaries as well as the Cabinet Secretary. Not all positions for CAS were filled.   With only six out of 21 nominees, the question of gender representation is likely to come up during vetting.