The pharmaceutical industry plays a major role in supporting the health sector. Nairobi hosts the largest contingent of multinational pharmaceutical companies in the East African region. Major European and American firms are present through local affiliates, technical representatives’ offices or technical agents. Kenya is the largest producer of pharmaceutical products in the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (Comesa) region, supplying about 50 per cent of the market. Out of the 50 recognised manufacturers, 32 are in Kenya. The Kenyan market reached $558.5 million in 2014, with the total turnover for local production at $103 million. Value addition generates $62 million or 30 per cent of the GDP. The Kenya Association of Pharmaceutical Industries (Kapi) was established in the 1960s to promote high standards in the industry. It draws its membership from large MNCs with local affiliates and technical representatives of others. HEALTHCARE The firms include Adcock Ingram East Africa Ltd; Astra Zeneca; Bayer E.A. Ltd; Beta Healthcare Ltd (Aspen SA); Boehringer Ingelheim; Eli Lilly (Suisse) SA; and GlaxoSmithKline. Others include Harleys Limited; Highchem Pharma Ltd; Johnson & Johnson; Laborex (K) Ltd; Mac Naughton Pharma; Novartis Pharma Services Inc; Pfizer Laboratories Ltd; Phillips Pharmaceuticals Ltd; Roche Products Ltd; Sanofi Aventis (K) Ltd, Sanofi Pasteur Ltd and Surgipharm Ltd. Kapi’s mission is to promote an ethical, innovative and responsible industry. While it achieves this through stakeholder engagement, key to product access, market development, business growth and job creation, is the trade and policy arm. It works with the Pharmacy and Poisons Board, Kenya Revenue Authority, Kenya Bureau of Standards, Anti-Counterfeit Authority and the Pest Control Products Board. LEGISLATION The trade and policy committee has contributed to policy decisions on trade in addition to legislation, notably the Health Act of 2017, Kenya Food and Drugs Authority Bill, VAT Act 2015, development of guidelines for regulation of parallel trade and identification of duplications in regulations. Recently, at a meeting with the Minister for Industrialisation and Enterprise Development, the association, together with manufacturers, Kenya Medical Supplies Authority, Ministry of Health and non-government agencies in health funding, deliberated on how the sector can play its role effectively. The government needs to give incentives to encourage production and export of affordable drugs such as those enjoyed by Indian companies. RESEARCHERS Last year, a market study commissioned by Kapi and conducted by researchers from the University of Nairobi’s School of Pharmacy, confirmed an eight per cent prevalence of unregulated or “grey imported” medicinal brands. The study focused on nine popular medicine brands. It was undertaken among 160 retailers with purchases of 543 products in 326 retail outlets in towns. The danger posed by unregulated medicines remains real, as they have not undergone regulatory scrutiny by the Pharmacy and Poisons Board. Kapi is optimistic that the findings will serve as a basis for discussion to enhance regulation. This year, Kapi will continue to play its role in development of the sector in Kenya and the region to ensure the highest standards of care and widen access to innovative research-based medical interventions. Dr Weru, a regulatory affairs professional, is the Kenya Association of Pharmaceutical Industry (Kapi) Trade & Policy Committee chairperson. dwerud08@gmail.com  