Macadamia farmers in Meru County have accused the Agriculture and Food Authority (AFA) and a section of local buyers of intimidating Chinese traders who offer better prices. This comes after 11 Chinese nut buyers were arrested over the weekend as the AFA Nut and Oil Directorate enforced a ban on sale of immature nuts. Nuts were also confiscated during the crackdown. According to AFA, harvesting and sale of macadamia has been suspended until February 20 to avert export of poor quality nuts. PRICING But farmers led by Meru County Macadamia Association chairman Joshua Muriira accused some local processors of plotting to kick out the Chinese buyers so as to lower farm gate prices. “The Chinese traders have been buying our nuts at Sh170 per kilo while other buyers want the price to go as low as Sh80. "We are shocked that police shot at the buyers, causing their vehicle to roll and arresting them. AFA is destroying our source of income by scaring away the best buyers,” Mr Muriira said. He said Kitheo area, where the Chinese buyers were arrested, produces some of the most crunchy nuts in Africa. “We are not getting the best price for our nuts in this country. We will not allow traders to take advantage of farmers by determining the price of macadamia. "Macadamia sells at up to Sh900 a kilo in other parts of the world. We will be demanding at least Sh200 per kg,” he said. LIBERAL MARKETMr Stephen Kanyithia, a farmer, called on the government to address unfair competition among macadamia buyers. “Government agencies responsible for macadamia should ensure farmers do not suffer as traders compete for the produce. We want a liberal market where prices are determined by market forces,” Mr Kanyithia said. Mr Daniel Murungi, another farmer, said they have been treated to constant price fluctuations due to lack of proper regulations. “We have been selling a kilo at Sh170 until December last year, but the price has declined to Sh100 this month over claims of poor quality. We do not understand how they determine the price in Nairobi,” he said. Mr Murungi said traders should be given freedom to buy at the prices they wish. “We want a free market where farmers get good returns for their investment. The price should be set by an independent government agency and not factory owners who are out to exploit us,” Mr Murungi said.  