National Super Alliance supporters have expressed disappointment in the other three principals who did not turn up for Raila Odinga’s ‘swearing-in’. Mr Odinga took the oath as the ‘people's president’ at Uhuru Park in Nairobi on Tuesday. The oath was administered by Ruaraka MP TJ Kajwang. NO SHOW Mr Kalonzo Musyoka, the deputy leader of the coalition who was expected to also take the oath, was not present during the event. Neither did the other principals, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula. While hailing Mr Odinga's 'bold' move, the supporters referred to Mr Musyoka, Mr Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetangula as ‘cowards ‘who should not be entrusted with leadership. "I am dismayed by the actions of the other principals especially Mr Musyoka for failing Baba (Raila). I will never trust them as leaders," said Jared Omondi, a Nasa supporter from Migori. Mary Robi, a trader at Kehancha market, said the trio have showed their true colours. "Have they been pretending that they support the swearing-in of Raila?” she asked. Other supporters took to social media, immediately after Mr Odinga took the oath, to vent their displeasure. "And then you will come back thumping your chests on who is the best to succeed Baba as the flagbearer," Freddy McGeorge posted on Facebook. Mercy Akinyi Anyango, a Twitter user posted, "Now this is what we call ‘Betrayal in the City’. Where were Kalonzo, Weta and Mudavadi?  Their absence stole the show. It goes a long way to reveal that all is not well in Nasa family!" Others urged Mr Odinga to abandon the trio and forge his own political direction.   "It is clear they are not committed. They are already compromised. Raila should read the writing on the wall and seek another alliance. Let him join hands with even DP Ruto," Charles Adongo posted on Facebook. Other online users termed the event a no-show and a complete embarrassment. "What did I watch at Uhuru Park? An afro cinema movie?  I expected much more than that. It was a complete no-show from Nasa. Embarrassing,"  Mas Bhaku, a Facebook user posted. "Why did I come Uhuru Park?  I am very disappointed. I expected a historic event but the whole thing turned out the sham of the year," Tom Owino, a resident of Migori, spoke to 'Nation' on phone from Nairobi.   Nasa principals including Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang'ula absent during event.