Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers (Kuppet) Chairman Omboko Milemba has said he resigned early last year as a public school teacher and wondered why the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) had served him with a termination letter. “I resigned last year as a teacher in order to seek elective position in Emuhaya Constituency and they acknowledged it. Now the same TSC has written a termination letter to me. This is pure malice,” said Mr Milemba. ACKNOWLEDGED In a letter dated April 3, 2017 addressed to Mr Milemba through the Principal of Kilingili Secondary School in Vihiga County – his last working station – TSC accepted his resignation. “In reference to your letter dated February 1, 2017, which you requested to resign from teaching service, I wish to inform you that your request has been accepted with effect from February 6, 2017,” reads the letter by the Commission’s Chief Executive Nancy Macharia and signed by Mr PK Ayiego on her behalf. It adds that: “In order to fasten the process of your pension refunds, you are required to submit the following: the attached bank forms duly completed, clearance from TSC county director, earliest and last payslip reflecting pension contributions and clearance from Kenya revenue Authority (KRA). “On behalf of TSC, I take this opportunity to thank you for the service rendered to the teaching profession, I wish you all the best in your endeavours.” SACKED The commission this month sacked Mr Milemba, Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) Secretary-General Wilson Sossion (ODM nominated MP) and Bomet Central MP Ronald Tonui, who served as Kuppet assistant treasurer. They were fired for joining active politics. Mr Milemba asked TSC to allow teachers to replace their representatives instead of undermining the unions. “These theatrics by TSC are not necessary and it should focus on its mandate of serving teachers. Unions are not departments of TSC,” said Mr Milemba who was elected MP for Emuhaya. Mr Sossion also asked the TSC not to be used to undermine union leaders. Regulation 187 (1) and (2) of the Code of Regulations for Teachers requires teachers released to trade unions to resign or retire from service once they opt to contest for political office.   But Sossion says he left the commission in 2001 when he became Knut official.