What do an aircraft technician, a tax consultant, a statistician, a quantity surveyor, a laboratory mentor, and a civil engineer have in common? A lot more than you may imagine. The six youth we have interviewed, though in different professions, are leading community service and development initiatives through Rotaract Club chapters across Kenya. Rotaract is an initiative that brings together youth between 18-30 years to develop professional skills, exchange ideas, and serve their communities. It was created as the youth branch of Rotary International, a global network of 1.2 million people dedicated to creating positive, lasting change in their communities. Guided by the motto, “Service above self,” Rotaract Clubs are nonpartisan and nonsectarian, and seek to “encourage and foster the ideal of service as a basis of worthy enterprise.” Globally, there are 9,522 clubs, with 291,006 Rotaractors spread around 177 different countries. In Kenya alone, there are over 40 Rotaract Clubs. Each club is sponsored and guided by a “parent” Rotary Club, where members are typically 30 years and older. MyNetwork met with presidents of some of the Rotaract Clubs in Kenya. From Nairobi to Kisumu, Malindi to Thika, they are extraordinary youth leading extraordinary projects. In the interviews below, we learn about their passion for service, their unique career paths, and the lessons they’ve learned from leading their respective clubs.  Charles Rukwaro, 24 - Civil engineering student , President of The Rotaract Club of the University of Nairobi What do you like about being a Rotaractor? People are so free with each other. You’d think that it would take years for people to be this close-knit, but when I joined, some members told me they’d only been there for four or five months. That’s one of the best things about being a Rotaractor - you’re part of a really huge family. Tell me about a project that you’ve led as president of your club. We have been really huge on student mentorship. The past year alone, we mentored at five primary and secondary schools in conjunction with the Rotary Club of Nairobi North. They have a project called “Books and Beyond”. Initially, the project focused on donating books to schools, and then they realised that they could incorporate mentorship sessions. We go to schools and advice students on academic issues, social issues, drug abuse, sex, relationships and the like. What are some of the skills you have developed through your time with Rotaract? Interpersonal skills, time management and commitment to the cause. I’ve developed leadership skills, and to trust my teammates. I’ve learned that things will work out even when it doesn’t seem likely. What are your aspirations for the future? After I graduate, I’d like to get into a civil engineering firm and practice until I am satisfied that I have made an impact. From there, I want to do a master’s degree and work for an international organisation, such as the World Bank or the UN – one that focuses on development in Africa. From a really young age I have been interested in why we, in Africa, have so many resources yet are still so behind.  Anne Mutinda, 28 - Tax consultant, President of the Rotaract Club of Karura What is the Rotaract Club of Karura’s signature project? What we are doing for the next five to 10 years is environmental conservation. We do a lot of tree planting in Nairobi and its environs. Last year, we started a mangrove planting project that seeks to preserve the coastline; we planted mangrove trees on an island in Malindi. Take us back to that time you felt inspired by the work you do with the Rotaract Club We recently collaborated on a project with The Samburu Girls Foundation. They rescue girls in the Samburu community who have been married off or gone through Female Genital Mutilation (FGM). Doctor Josephine Kulea takes them to the rescue centre, educates them and gives them a home. We went to the rescue centre and took donations we had received through corporate sponsorship. It meant a lot to step into the lives of those girls, to encourage them and hear their stories. We wanted to inspire them, to say, “This particular thing may have happened to you, but it’s not the end. This is a step - you’ve been able to go to school, and with that education that you have, you will be able to do so much.” Why is community service so important to you? I went to Strathmore University, which is really big on community involvement. In our first year, we were required to give 200 hours of community service. I volunteered at a children’s home, and still went back even after my first year of community attachment. When I joined Rotaract, I was excited because I was able to join other people to make an even bigger impact. What kinds of initiatives have you led as president at the Rotaract Club of Karura? This year we’re looking at fundraising. We’re looking at different ways of getting funds that don’t involve members. If you keep asking the same people for money, it doesn’t really work. So we’re thinking outside the box. This was something I wanted to do in my year as president.  Edwin Ochomo, 30 - Laboratory mentor, President of the Rotaract Club of Kisumu How did you first get involved with the Rotaract Club? A good friend was a member of the Rotaract Club of Kisumu and told me that they needed some help with an upcoming health initiative. Since I was working at a health facility, I helped them obtain a licence for their project. After that, she invited me to their next meeting. I never stop attending. What was it about the club that sparked an interest in you? I have a passion for giving back to the community, because I come from a humble background. I know the value of giving and the value of helping. You also give back to the community through your job. Tell us more about your profession. I am a Viral Load Champion and laboratory mentor for Nyakach Sub County in Kisumu County. Being a Viral Load Champion means that I am the point person on issues to do with viral load testing for HIV positive patients. It involves mentorship of staff, on-the-job training and supervision. What kinds of projects have you been involved with at the Rotaract Club of Kisumu? After the elections, we organised a blood donation clinic in partnership with the Rotary Club of Kisumu. We’re also starting a health project in February or March this year. There’s a school in Siaya County with latrines that are in bad state. The kids are exposed to communicable diseases like cholera and ringworms. We intend to build them new latrines. In addition to your passion for charitable work, what else do you like about Rotaract? Rotaract is not just a local entity; it’s a global network. With that comes the opportunity to travel and network with people across several regions.  Eva Kaburu, 29, Aircraft technician, President of the Rotaract Club of Thika Why did you decide to get involved with the Rotaract Club? It was the Christmas season of 2015, when many were visiting children’s homes. I asked myself, “What happens to these children the rest of the year, from January to November?” During a meeting at my parent club, The Rotary Club of Thika, I asked how I could participate, and was told about the Rotaract Club. Why did you decide to become an aircraft technician? As a child, I would see planes in the air and would ask myself, “How do these things go up and come down?” The first encounter that I had was with a helicopter. I asked the pilot so many questions about all the buttons in view, he eventually told me, “You’ll learn this all when you grow up.” The curiosity stuck, and here I am. It sounds like being president of the Rotaract Club of Thika is also an opportunity to nurture your curiosity and learn new things. What kinds of skills are you acquiring on-the-job? I’m learning how people work differently, and how to bring everybody’s ideas together. I’ve learned how to write a budget, write proposals and organise projects and events. I’m more confident now. I don’t feel shy about taking things on. What kinds of projects is your club involved with? Our signature project is blackboard painting. So far we’ve done this in two schools in Murang’a County, where I come from, and are planning to do more in March. We also do medical camps once a year. In many rural areas, medicine is inaccessible and too expensive for many. Also, the journey to and fro their homes to a dispensary or clinic is long. We get doctors to volunteer for the day. They check blood pressure and sugar levels, and give out free medicine. What kinds of feedback have you received from beneficiaries of your projects? After we did one of our blackboard projects, the headteacher called us.  She was very happy. She said, “You should see the look on the children’s faces, they’re all excited!” Next time, we intend to involve the kids so that they can have a feel of the whole experience.  Mwagandi Kiponda, 29, Graduate student of statistical programming and clerk assistant, President of the Rotaract Club of Malindi What inspired you to get involved with the Rotaract Club? What interested me was the fact that people can discuss really important issues, and work on them voluntarily. That you can identify a problem in your community and try to solve it. How do you feel when you give back to the community? Even if you give very little, as little as say, Sh100, you give a lot of joy to a needy person who did not expect it. The Rotaract Club of Malindi has launched a project to raise awareness about cancer. Tell us more about the project. We realised that the community here associates cancer with witchcraft, and so they do not go for check-ups. By the time they decide to go to hospital, the cancer is no longer manageable. We began this project to create awareness that cancer is real. We promote and coordinate for people to go for early check-ups. Our target is to sponsor 10 people annually to have chemotherapy. We shall be working hand-in-hand with community health workers to identify those in need, those unable to raise the minimum amount of money required to get the treatment  Nicodemus Chege, 27, Quantity Surveyor President of the Rotaract Club of Nairobi Central  