Early this week, a young colleague — she is 25 — recounted a story I found amusing, but which she tells me is a source of distress to those involved. She tells me that a friend’s father recently joined Facebook. On his profile, among other things, he wrote that he was “a proud father of four.” At a glance, there’s nothing wrong with this statement, in fact, it is something you would expect your 54-year-old father to write should he decide, a thousand years late, to join Facebook today. An innocent enough statement, one written by an obviously proud parent. The only flaw is that there are three children in this young man’s family, in fact, they have been three for a long time, given that the third born, the last born, is 12 years. “So who is this fourth sibling that we don’t know about?” this colleague’s friend asked her, visibly distressed. Keen to reassure her friend, who seemed to be on the verge of an emotional break down, suggested that it could be that his father had made a mistake, an explanation that sounded unlikely even to her. I mean, which parent gets the number of children he has wrong, especially if they are as few as three? REVEAL TRUTHS Had it been the late Akuku Danger who had gotten the math wrong, it would have been understandable, after all, he sired tens of children. But three? A man can also be forgiven for getting the ages of his children wrong, but not the number surely. Since then, this young lady has been looking at his father suspiciously, and debating whether or not to point out the glaring ‘mistake’ on Facebook. The only thing that has been holding her back is the fact that he might not like the answer. That she has a sibling she has never met somewhere out there. This anecdote got me thinking about the various ways we reveal those truths that are bound to upset, to shock. Those truths that are difficult to voice. I have a friend that turned up at her parent’s house nine months pregnant. She was 22 then and on her first job. PREGNANT When she found out she was pregnant, she immediately moved from home, explaining to her parents that it was time she became independent. For six months, she had deliberately avoided her parents, giving every excuse she could come up with not to visit. Being the first born, she felt that she had disappointed her parents for getting pregnant out of wedlock, and was afraid of how they would take the news. She figured that if she turned up at their doorstep and they saw her extended belly, she would not need to do any explaining. As she had expected, they were shocked, but not wanting to rock the delicate state she was in, they kept their misgivings to themselves, also not blind to the fact that stating their displeasure would be a waste of time. But there are disclosures that are just plain cruel. I once heard about a woman who found out that a man she considered her boyfriend had gotten married after coming across photos of his wedding on social media. I know, it is one of those dumbfounding stories that elicit numerous questions that have no ready answers, but one thing I have come to realise is that sometimes, the truth is stranger than fiction. If people were brave enough to tell their stories, as raw as they are, all the frills trimmed and done away with, you would be in for the shock of your life. So, what’s your story? cnjunge@ke.nationmedia.com; Twitter: @cnjerius. The writer is the editor, MyNetwork, in the Daily Nation  