Excited supporters of Nasa leader Raila Odinga poured onto the streets of major towns in Nyanza and Western regions Tuesday to celebrate his 'oath' as the people’s president. In Kisumu, residents burst into song and dance after the opposition leader 'took the oath' despite the fact that his co-principals were conspicuously missing from the event. The residents took to the streets to celebrate the much-hyped fete that was attended by thousands of Kenyans in Uhuru Park, Nairobi. CELEBRATIONS They crisscrossed the town carrying twigs and blowing vuvuzelas. Some donned Orange T-shirts while others were shirtless. Traders at Kibuye market opted to slaughter a goat and prepare it on the Kisumu-Kakamega Road as part of the celebrations. They also prepared chicken and vegetables to accompany the sumptuous meal.“This is not an ordinary fete. It is history in the making, and we are extremely happy that ‘Baba’ did not disappoint us. We are making merry today and tomorrow as we await his next move,” said a trader, who donned a jungle green T-shirt branded ‘Resist’. In Homa Bay, Nasa supporters carried banners bearing messages praising Mr Odinga. They blew vuvuzelas as they marched in the streets, while others rode on motorbikes.County ODM youth official Evans Gor told journalists that the residents were happy because many thought the “swearing-in” ceremony would not take place after independent TV stations were switched off by the state. In Kakamega, Nasa supporters also took to the streets to celebrate. Youth riding on motorcycles and pick-ups accompanied by women from a local market broke into song and dance. The scenes were replicated in Kisii County. “I am happy that he (Mr Odinga) is not a coward as we had thought all along. At last, I have a president,” said Mr John Omambia, a Kisii resident. “We have been waiting for long and finally, the event has come to pass. Now that he has taken oath, I am elated,” said Ms Kemunto Ombongi, a trader. ODM party branch chairman Kerosi Ondieki praised the government for withdrawing police from Uhuru Park. But supporters were also irked by the absence of the other three principals — Mr Kalonzo Musyoka, Mr Musalia Mudavadi and Mr Moses Wetang’ula, who were not at the ceremony. Meanwhile, there was relative calm in most parts of the Rift Valley region as residents showed little interest in the ceremony. A spot check in Eldoret Town, Uasin Gishu, which is considered one of Jubilee’s strongholds, showed that most of the residents went on with their day-to-day businesses.A number of residents who spoke to Nation faulted the opposition for holding the ceremony, saying it was likely to jeopardise the country’s political stability. TURKANA “We want to ask under what law are they going on with the swearing in yet we have a president? The court in September called for the repeat of the elections but they boycotted. What we want to appeal for is peaceful co-existence in this county since it is cosmopolitan,” said Mr Barnabas Chemase, a former councillor.It was the same case in Turkana despite the county leaning towards the opposition. No celebrations were witnessed in the region. But it was different in Trans Nzoia, where Nasa supporters took to the streets to celebrate the “swearing-in” of Mr Odinga. But Central Kenya leaders led by Murang’a Governor Mwangi Wa Iria termed the event inconsequential. They also praised the Nasa principals who skipped the event. Mr Wa iria accused Mr Odinga of sabotaging President Kenyatta and asked Nasa to prepare to face Jubilee in 2022 instead of engaging in theatrics. Kiambu Senator Kimani Wamatangi said the event was a continuation of the opposition leaders’ scheme to seek relevance. Reports by Rushdie Oudia, Magati Obebo, Victor Raballa, Vivere Nandiemo, Benson Amadala, Stanley Kimuge, Sammy Lutta and Gerald Bwisa, Grace Gitau, Joseph Wangui and Eric Wainaina   We have arrived in Canaan, Nasa leader says.