Has the boda boda ban in the CBD taken effect? Yes it has, according to the county government. But on Friday operators were still plying their trade in the central business district. 'DODGY' OPERATORS Speaking to the Nation on Friday, director of operations at Nairobi City Inspectorate Department Peter Mbaya confirmed that the operation is still underway and that boda boda motorcycles are being impounded as per the gazette notice issued on January 22. “Boda boda operators are dodgy. It is very difficult to get them all, that’s why some are still on the roads. But our operation is still going on and we hope soon they will be off the roads,” Mr Mbaya said. However, a spot check by the Nation revealed that it is business as usual for the boda boda operators. BUSINESS AS USUAL At the junction of Tom Mboya Street and Latema Road, along Moi Avenue next to the Bazaar and at the junction of Koinange and Moktar Daddah streets, boda boda operators, mostly in bright green reflector vests, congregated, waiting for people to ferry. On most roads in the city centre, motorcycles ferrying passengers, some not even wearing helmets wove through traffic. They were not visibly scared, but when City County vehicles passed by, they took cover, only to emerge from hiding once the coast was clear. But when operators near The Bazaar on Moi Avenue saw city inspectorate officers, they sped off. They later returned when they realised that the county officials were carrying out an operation on matatu operators. BODA BODA BAN On Monday, the county government banned boda bodas from the CBD. The gazette notice said that only riders providing courier services would be allowed in the CBD. It added that boda bodas ferrying passengers should drop them off at Ngara and City Stadium. The notice warned of hefty fines, arrest and long jail terms if they break the new rules. The ban was issued to help decongest the town as well as curtail crime. Starehe MP Charles Njagua, under whose constituency the CBD falls, sued the governor on Wednesday for issuing the directive without consulting him. He said the ban would hurt the operators, who eke a living from the trade.   The notice warns of hefty fines, arrest and long jail terms for riders.