The taxpayer will bear heavy burden of a bloated Cabinet that President Uhuru Kenyatta announced on Friday. Besides naming 22 Cabinet Secretaries (CSs), which is the maximum allowed by the Constitution, President Kenyatta also created previously non-existent positions of the Chief Administrative Secretaries (CAS) whose role is still unclear, with some suggestions that they will be like assistant ministers in the previous Constitution or “co-CSs”. “The CAS would broadly be responsible for helping the CS to better coordinate the running of the affairs of their respective ministries,” President Kenyatta said. PRINCIPAL SECRETARIESA majority of CAS nominees are political cronies and former MPs who lost in the 2017 elections and the positions could have been purposely created to reward them. During the campaigns last year, President Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto wooed many opposition figures like former Budalang’i MP Ababu Namwamba and Gideon Mung’aro to support Jubilee party and Mr Kenyatta’s re-election bid on the promise they would be given government jobs after the elections. The establishment of CAS position is besides the Principal Secretaries (PSs), who as the accounting officers are recognised by the Constitution. The minimum and maximum number of PSs is not specified but each State department has in the past had at least one PS. SALARIESIn the lineup so far published, the President has appointed 38 PSs with the Ministry of Agriculture having four positions, the most for any ministry, while Education and Transport ministries have three PSs each. It means the apex of the Executive arm of government will have 82 appointed officials consisting of 22 CSs, 22 CAS and 38 PSs. With such senior executive appointments, Kenyans could be staring at the prospect of having to foot the bill for what will be the one of the country’s biggest Cabinet. According to the Kenya Gazette notice number 6516 by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) of July 7, 2017, the cost of maintaining the 22 CSs will run into tens of millions of shillings a month. MEDICAL COVERThe gross pay for a CS is Sh924,000 a month. For the 22 CSs President Kenyatta has named, their combined basic salary before tax will be Sh20.3 million a month or Sh243.9 million a year. The CSs are also entitled to official transport and armed security aides who accompany them and those stationed at their homes. Besides, each CS has inpatient medical cover of Sh10 million, outpatient cover of Sh300,000, maternity cover of Sh150,000, dental cover of Sh75,000 and optical cover of Sh75,000. They also enjoy a group life cover equivalent to three times their annual basic remuneration, which would translate to Sh33.3 million. TAXPAYERSThey also enjoy a group personal accident cover of equal amount as life cover. In addition, the CSs have access to car and mortgage benefits. Meanwhile, according to the same Gazette Notice, a PS earns Sh765,188 a month and has largely similar benefits as the CSs. With 38 PSs as they are now, the taxpayer will have to cough out Sh29.1 million a month to foot their gross pay or Sh348.9 million annually. Then there is the added financial burden brought by the creation of CAS positions. NASA LINEUPEach ministry has a CAS and though their functions in government still remains hazy, at least until the President issues an executive order, the manner in which they were named means that they will be senior to the PSs and therefore likely to earn slightly more. Kenyans will also have to cater for their offices, personal staff, local and foreign travel among other privileges and allowances. The creation of CAS positions looks like a turnaround for Jubilee who in April 2017 dismissed the lineup of opposition Nasa as unconstitutional. “This was never about the country. It was about giving jobs for themselves instead of the millions of Kenyans who need jobs,” President Kenyatta had then said. NEW POSITIONIn their lineup ahead of the August 2017 elections, Nasa had agreed to create the post of Premier Cabinet Secretary in charge of the state department of internal security and administration of the national government, which was to be reserved for Amani national Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi. This post, according to Nasa, was to have two deputies – one in charge of devolution, which was to go to former Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto, and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula was to be in charge of public sector. “While they are lying to each other about Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister’s positions, which are not in the Constitution, we in the Jubilee Party are committed to entrenching democracy to develop the country,” the President said then.   The creation of Chief Administrative Secretary post is as an avenue of rewarding lieutenants.