A cloud of anxiety, tension and uncertainty has engulfed the country, just as it did last year ahead of the August 8 and October 26 elections. The country is again hanging on a thread over tomorrow’s opposition plan to swear in Nasa leader Raila Odinga as the “people’s president”. This is because President Uhuru Kenyatta was sworn in last year. We are back to a possible economic slowdown, with investors and other entrepreneurs having adopted a “wait-and-see” stance as country and the international community remain on tenterhooks over the situation. As a leader, I am disturbed about the economic stagnation we are experiencing due to a political leadership that is taking forever to recognise that half of the country has rejected its legitimacy. I respect both President Kenyatta and Mr Odinga; the former as the sitting President, and the latter as a political leader that holds half of this country’s aspirations in his hands. It would be foolhardy of the Jubilee administration to assume, and, in fact, argue, that simply because they hold the instruments of power, legally speaking, then they have a right to ignore everybody else. POWER Since the Raila Odinga-led arm of Kenyan politics failed to get substantive power in the 2007 elections, it has been one long-winding journey to disillusionment and a sense of exclusion from participation and benefits of state power. I don’t see why Uhuruto should be apathetic to any engagement with the opposition in a dialogue meant to cushion those out of government from a total feeling of being marginalised in their own country. President Kenyatta must resist the temptation to ignore those who did not support him last year, especially when egged on by those keen to grab power in 2022.  As the President seeks to secure his second-term legacy, he must also strive to leave Kenya more united than he found it. Since Jubilee was declared the election winner, key players are now pulling from different directions. One is keen to shape up an elusive legacy and the other is crafting a plot to remain in power.  President Kenyatta should take charge and set an agenda for the much desired national dialogue. POLITICAL PROBLEM The political problem we have been experiencing largely emanates from a bungled electoral process, which has left behind a trail of betrayal and feeling of discrimination among some citizens. This must be addressed as a matter of urgency and made central to any unifying talks. I am not at all saying the swearing-in of Mr Odinga is the panacea to the ills bedevilling our nation. In fact, I see it as a recipe for potential anarchy, if  dialogue is not given a chance. We have seen what other African countries have undergone after a sizeable part of the electorate thought they could no longer stomach their ruling class. I draw tangible lessons from the Zimbabwean experience last year, where no one thought veteran President Robert Mugabe could relinquish power so easily and so delicately. At one point, it became clear that the people were desperate for change, and it was clear who they wanted to take charge. GOOD CHANGE Jubilee must not allow this feeling of “any change is good change” to creep into the minds of oppositionists simply because of the fear of holding talks with stakeholders of half the shares of the nation’s political establishment.  However, I doubt that Nasa has adopted the best strategy to push for dialogue. First, it cannot belittle the independence of its legislators by forcing them to sign affidavits in support of the swearing-in. This country is big enough for all of us and no political side should think it has more right. Those in power have just been given an opportunity to serve fellow Kenyans. They must know that nationhood will only make sense when everyone feels a sense of belonging. The buck stops with President Kenyatta. Mr Kenta is the Narok North MP. olekenta@gmail.com  