Hassan Wario’s lacklustre tenure as Cabinet Secretary for Sports, Culture and the Arts on Friday came to an end as President Uhuru Kenyatta appointed Rashid Mohammed in his stead. The little-known Mohammed will now head the ministry that has been named Ministry of Sports and Heritage, as Wario takes up a new role as Kenya’s ambassador to Austria. Wario’s exit was received with optimism by the sports fraternity that was regularly rattled by his inability to make key decisions and to lead. “Good riddance. Wario never understood sports and he never bothered to understand us as sports administrators. I hope that he will perform better in his new position,” said Kenya Rugby Union chairman Richard Omwela. “We welcome Rashid with two hands. Wario had his weaknesses, but he could have performed better. We will, however, remember him for establishing the Anti-Doping Association of Kenya. I think that is the only thing he succeeded in,” said AK Nairobi region chairman Barnabas Korir. Wario’s five-year tenure was blighted mainly by the Rio Olympic Games fiasco. Athletes were poorly handled and funds misappropriated leading to an investigation by a government appointed committee. No one has been brought to book to date despite the committee handing its findings to President Kenyatta. The new CS finds the sports fraternity still smarting from the departure of betting company SportPesa, who were financial partners with a number of sports federations and clubs including the Kenya Rugby Union, Kenyan Premier League limited, Kenya Harlequin rugby team as well as Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards football clubs. His first assignment will now be to get the Sports Fund up and running, and also to ensure the self-sustainability of the different sporting disciplines. Little is known about the new sports boss other than the fact that he is an alumnus of Mount Kenya University and was formerly a youth coordinator for the Orange Democratic Movement. Ambassador Kirimi Kaberia has been retained as Principal Secretary for Sports.   Rashid Mohammed has been appointed Cabinet Secretary for Sports and Heritage by President Uhuru Kenyatta.