The nine-hole Kiambu Golf Club course, is the venue this weekend, for the first event in the popular Johnnie Walker Golf series. The series is sponsored by East Africa Breweries. Last year, the series travelled to almost all the clubs in the country, where big fields were witnessed in most of the venues. A field of 150 players, which is by all means quite big for a nine hole course, was drawn for this weekend where some fabulous prizes will be on offer. But the club has handled even bigger entries in the past particularly since the re-organization of the second hole from the then par three-second and now the fourth hole, to the down-hill par five which was formerly the seventh hole. Because of the large field, teeing off is set for 7.04am for those drawn in the morning and 11am for the afternoon draw. And with the Kenya Amateur Golf Championship (KAGC) series taking a short break after last weekend’s Sigona Bowl, Kiambu’s top amateurs will be back home to take on the middle and high handicappers. The low handicap golfers drawn in the Johnnie Walker event include Michael Karanga and Michael Ngene, who participated in the 54-hole Sigona Bowl last weekend. In the Sigona Bowl, Karanga, after a poor start with 10 over par 82, managed to put a brave fight for the last two rounds of 76 and 73 to tie for the 11th place in the 140 field. The format this weekend will however be stableford off full handicap intended to favour those in the middle and high handicap bracket. Consequently, for the single figure handicap players to feature in the prize list, they may have to post under par scores. Among the middle level handicap golfers vying for the top prizes include the “Mountain Tigers’’ Njeru Njagi, Paul Kaumbutho, Larry Njue and David Nyaga. There is also the group of Royal Media chairman Samuel Kamau Macharia, David Ndirangu, Maina Njakwe and M.K. Wanjohi. Kenya Breweries managing director, a keen golfer in her own right, will be leading the strong team of guests. Currently, the Kiambu course is reported to be in excellent condition hence one may have to score 39 points and above to feature in the prize list. Away in Thika, the par 72 Thika Sports Club course will host the Retirement Benefits Authority golf tournament. This is the first time RBA is sponsoring a golf event at Thika where over 200 golfers will be in action to battle it out for the prizes being offered. Meanwhile, Sigona Golf Club will be hosting the Atlas Financial Group tournament which comes exactly a week after the Sigona Bowl. Action is also on this weekend at Nyahururu Sports Club where the high altitude golf course will be staging the Fall Hippo Point tournament which has attracted players from Nakuru, as well as Nyeri, Njoro and Nanyuki.   The second leg of the 19-event Kenya Amateur Golf Championship series will be on February 3 and 4.