Thanks to the hashtag #MeToo, we’re now all too aware of just how often women are sexually harassed or assaulted. All over the world. But do the men they accuse have anything in common? Because if they do, those traits might suggest ways to tackle the problem. Or at least what sort of men to avoid. And yet until recently there was surprisingly little research done on offenders. Early research usually focused on the victims instead. That’s probably because people used to think of sexual harassment and abuse as women’s issues, even though it was mostly men who committed the crimes. Early research also focused on men who’d been convicted. But that was also misleading, because men who are in prison are usually leading a life involving many different sorts of crime. Like violence, fraud, stealing phones, cars - and sometimes sex. CRIMINALS But men who behave inappropriately towards women - and get away with it - aren’t generally career criminals. In fact, it’s highly likely that this is their only crime. Offenders come from every community and social group. Married men are just as likely to offend as singles. Personal traits are important, so for example, self-centred men such as narcissists are much more likely to be sexual predators than men who’re empathetic. Offenders usually start when they’re young - in school or the first couple of years of college. And they probably first crossed the line with someone they knew. So occasional offenders are much more common on school and college campuses than people imagine. Some commit one or two sexual offences and then stop. Others continue for years, or even start to offend more often. The difference between one-off and repeat offenders is not clear cut. But for example, men who express remorse for their victim aren’t likely to re-offend, while those who blame her for what happened probably will. RAPE Obviously men are always responsible for their actions, but those who commit sexual assaults are more likely to be heavy drinkers and to be aroused by rape porn. They believe the “rape myths,” like “no means yes,” talk about women using hostile language, have friends who are also sexually aggressive, and think that their friends will look down on them if they don’t have sex. They’re also surprisingly open about the issue of consent. So if they’re asked “if they had their victim’s consent,” they will agree that they didn’t. But when asked if what they did was “something like rape,” they’ll almost always say no. This disconnect from reality is very common, even among men who’ve confessed to the most awful assaults. It’s not that they deny what happened. It’s just that they don’t see it as being wrong. That doesn’t mean they’re some sort of psychopath. It’s just that no one ever wants to think they’re the bad guy. Which leads to another important trait that’s shared by men who sexually harass or assault: they never ever believe they’re the problem. nyumbayangu@me.com  