An officer accused of defiling a minor at Gatundu police station has been detained at the facility for five days. Resident Magistrate Caroline Makali granted an application sought earlier by detectives who wanted more time to investigate the case. Mr Paul Rotich was accused of defiling a 15-year-old Form Two student while on night duty at the station on Sunday. He is said to have removed her from the cells at 5 am to perform some duties within the station. VICTIM The victim reported the issue to other officers who then took her to Gatundu Level Four Hospital before arresting the officer on the same day. On Monday, the officer was arraigned in a magistrate’s court but he did not take a plea as police sought five days to conclude investigations. The defence lawyer had rejected the application, forcing the court to adjourn the matter to yesterday. The minor and her 14-year-old cousin had been taken to the station by their parents on accusations of indiscipline. The two minors were taken through a counselling session by Gatundu District Children’s Officer Gabriel Kitili who said the girl was yet to receive medication following the incident. SAD “At the hospital, she underwent some tests but did not get any medication. I have directed the officers and the parents of the girl to go back to the hospital with the report they were given to get treatment,” said Mr Kitili. The hospital said the doctors responsible for administering medication to such victims had closed for the weekend. While terming the incident very unfortunate and sad, Mr Kitili said the parents should have instead reported the matter to his office instead of the police station. “It is clear the two have some disciplinary issues which would have been best sorted out through counselling not detention,” said Mr Kitili. The parents had booked them at the station as a way of disciplining them, a decision they have since regretted. “We want justice. It’s unfortunate that the person entrusted with our children’s safety ended up inflicting more harm on them,” said the victim’s father.  