New police chiefs have been sworn into office barley 24 hours after they were interviewed for competence. Judiciary Chief Registrar Anne Amadi administered the oaths of office in the presence of Chief Justice David Maraga. President Uhuru Kenyatta appointed them through a gazette notice dated January 19. They are Deputy Inspectors General Noor Gabow (Administration Police) and Edward Mbugua (Kenya Police) as well as Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti. COMMANDERS They have been holding office in acting capacity since January 5. Justice Maraga told the new commanders to spearhead police reforms and ensure they are guided by the constitution. “You have a big challenge ahead of you. You are seasoned officers and so Kenyans can be assured of going on with their businesses that they are safe and their property will be protected. “We must put an end to the nightmare in Kenya, the road carnage. The death toll on our roads is too high. And also there are other crimes that need to be addressed,” said the CJ. The law says that the National Police Service Commission (NPSC) must recommend to the president, officers to take the positions within 14 days after the office falls vacant. RECRUITMENT The period elapsed at midnight since President Kenyatta sent the previous office holders to the Public Service Commission for redeployment. NPSC chairman John Kavuludi said they recommended the new police chiefs after a “competitive recruitment spanning eight days.” “You earned your appointment. I will be looking forward to work with you when you join NPSC as commissioners,” he said. Police chiefs also sit at the commission as required by law. Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet told the officers that their task requires great responsibility. INTERVIEWS During interviews Mr Kinoti and Mr Mbugua had no competitors because there were no qualified challengers. Ms Milka Murugi Cheptinga, who had applied to be DCI, was not listed for interviews. Other applicants were Bernard Nguma David, Ms Cheptinga and Bernard Ombati. Mr Gabow faced competition from Musa Dhadho and Vincent Makokha. The interviews took place at NPSC headquarters in Nairobi on Thursday.  