The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) has threatened to take legal action against six counties that failed to submit their 2015 compliance status. Vice-chair Sophia Lepuchirit said out of the 47 county service boards, the six have not complied. Each MCA is supposed to fill a declaration form and submit it to the county service board. In this form (declaration form) one is supposed to declare his asset, income and liabilities. After submission, the board forwards the what they call compliance status report to the EACC indicating who has complied and who has not. READ: Half of corruption cases under probe touch on counties - EACC Non-compliant counties “The non-compliant county assemblies include Busia, Homa Bay, Isiolo, Kajiado, Kisumu and Tana River counties. "It is not a threat but as the commission will not hesitate to move to court and to seek orders for any public entity which fails the commission’s request,” said Ms Lepuchirit. Speaking at Mombasa Beach Hotel during the official opening of a workshop of county assembly technical staff on the Declaration of Income, Assets and Liabilities, Ms Lepuchirit said they have launched investigations against county assembly leaders over various offences. Lifestyle monitoring She said the agency is monitoring the lifestyles of such individuals as it analyses the assets that they had then and now. READ: EACC to carry out lifestyle audits on county officials “We will not allow public servants to steal from public coffers. The commission will use applicable laws to ensure that nobody is allowed to benefit from public resources. "The counties were not made to kill the spirit of devolution,” said Ms Lepuchirit, without specifying the number of those whom the commission was probing. County Assemblies Forum (CAF) chairman Johnson Osoi said the forum was willing and ready to cooperate with the commission to hand in whatever information that is required to fast-track its investigations on any matter. “There is no justification in inefficiency and ineffectiveness in our oversight as county assemblies. The public is increasingly convinced that there are not consequences to corruption and unethical conducts. "These concerns are genuine and we need them addressed,” said Mr Osoi.  