Jubilee Party has nullified the election of the Murang’a County Assembly Majority Leader and cracked the whip on the region’s party officials. This comes as the party seeks to rein in MCAs who have been fighting over leadership positions in the county for the last two days. Addressing journalists at Governor Mwangi Wa Iria’s office when he paid him a courtesy call Wednesday, Jubilee national Secretary-General Raphael Tuju also suspended all the interim party officials in the county. He said a disciplinary committee will be formed to determine the fate of officials. NO PARTY OFFICIALS “Consequently, there are no party officials in this county from today until the party gives the way forward. The disciplinary committee will also look into the conduct of the MCAs who have been fighting to express their dissatisfaction,” Mr Tuju said. Mr Tuju also said that a meeting held at a Kiambu hotel on January 5 by a faction of Murang’a MCAs that saw the replacement of the assembly leadership was null and void. The nullification means that Kahumbu MCA Eric Kamande will remain the Majority Leader while Mr Simon Wamwea will be the Majority Whip. Mr Amos Murigi, Dancun Muturi and Wambui Njoki who were elected the new majority leader, deputy majority leader and the chief whip respectively have been dealt a major blow after their election in Kiambu was nullified. The party’s has said the convener of the meeting, Mr Simon Gikuru, is neither the its chairperson nor an official and therefore he could not convene the meeting. ABUSE OF OFFICE Mr Tuju said Mr Gikuru had been fired by the party for abuse of office but he sneaked back to the office. He maintained that a court cannot impose a leader on the Jubilee Party. Governor Wa Iria said a joint meeting between the party and the MCAs will be held next week to try and resolve the ongoing infightings. The county boss said the infightings have affected service delivery, adding that the meeting will bring to an end the wrangles in the assembly. “The MCAs have fought enough times and a time has come to stop it…so that we continue working together as a team,” he said. At the same time, Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata led a delegation of senators and MPs from Murang’a to listen to MCAs’ grievances. “We want to listen to both factions so that we may come up with a comprehensive solution and end the negative publicity we have been receiving for a couple of weeks,” Mr Kang’ata told Nation. MCAS ARRESTED Meanwhile, three MCAs have been arrested and are expected to be charged formally Thursday for the chaos that happened on Tuesday when one faction tried to occupy the office of the majority leader. Four others are still at large and warrants of arrest have been issued against them. Those arrested are Jacinta Ng’ang’a (Township) Stanley Mburu (Makuyu) and Amos Murigi (Kimorori Wempa) Others who are still at large are Habire Chege (Nominated) Beth Waithira (Nominated) Samuel Kihurunjo (Gitugi) and Joyce Wambui (Nominated) Some Murang’a Town residents Wednesday engaged police in running battles as they protested demanding the release of Ms Ng’ang’a. They were later dispersed.   This is the second time MCAs are fighting over assembly leadership.