Five suspects linked to the killing of a prominent Nakuru businessman will remain in police custody for two more days pending their mental check-up before they can answer to murder charges in court. The five linked to the murder of Julius Kimani include his wife Gladys Wambui. Nakuru High Court Judge Roseline Korir on Wednesday evening directed that Ms Wambui, Ms Rahab Mukenye, Mr Alex Muhonja, James Mwaura and Mr Nicholus Mudegu undergo psychiatric tests before they appear to plead to the murder charges against them. MENTAL EXAMINATION Justice Korir in her ruling directed that the suspects be held at the Nakuru Central Police Station pending their mental examination. “The court directs that the suspects having been informed of their charges in court, be taken for mental evaluation before they come back to take pleas in court,” ruled the judge. This was the second time the suspects, accused of conspiring to kill Mr Kimani, appeared in court without taking plea. They first appeared in the court on January 2, 2018. According to court records, they are accused of committing the offence on December 1, 2017. NO PLEA When they appeared in court for the first time, they did not take plea after the police successfully persuaded the court to detain them for two weeks to allow them conclude their investigations. The suspects, through their lawyers, later moved to the High Court and obtained orders allowing their release on bond. In their applications before Justice Maureen Odero, they accused the police of violating their rights by detaining them for long without preferring charges against them. Their lawyer, Mr Wambeyi Magomere, told the court Wednesday that the State had, in total disregard of the court orders, refused to release the suspects on bail. LAWYER'S OBJECTION He unsuccessfully challenged the court to have the orders effected before his clients are charged. “I object to my clients taking plea before the orders granted by the court in our application are effected. My clients also have their constitutional right to bond terms,” said Mr Magomere. However, the court suspended the orders on bond terms pending the medical assessment on the suspects. Mr Kimani, who was the owner of Kimsnet Limited, a company that supplies nets, carpets and bedding to retailers in Nakuru Town, is said to have been abducted as he returned home from work at around midnight before being murdered. NAKURU CEMETERY His body was discovered by his brothers the following morning at a cemetery in Nakuru with a deep head injury. Ms Wambui, who is the main suspect in the case, is alleged to have hired the killers of her husband after the investigations revealed that she had been in constant communication with the other suspects. The family lawyer said the suspects had been paid at least Sh1.2 million out of the agreed amount of Sh8 million. The case will resume on Friday, January 19.  