Evidence is increasing that as in other areas of criminal behaviour, stalking a person, invariably a woman, is being facilitated by modern technology. Tassy Swallow, 23, a typical victim, said: “Stalking used to be perceived as somebody following you in the street or looking at you from behind a bush. Now, it might be that they sit for hours looking at all your things online, finding out who you are, what you do, looking at your pictures, and then they know where to find you.” Tassy was stalked by James Casbolt, who sent her threatening Facebook messages. She was lucky that he only threatened her and was jailed for 12 years. The stalker of Alice Ruggles, 24, killed her. Alice had reported the stalker, her former boyfriend Trimaan Dhillon, 26, to the police more than once, but no effective action was taken. The couple had dated for six months but broke up when Dhillon thought she might be seeing someone else. He bombarded her with around 240 phone calls in two weeks. FORMAL WARNING When she went to the police, they contacted Dhillon with a formal warning. He was furious and 12 days later, he climbed through an open window and stabbed Alice to death, slashing her throat at least six times. He was sentenced at Newcastle Crown Court to spend a minimum of 22 years in prison for what the judge said was an “act of utter barbarism”. One reason stalking is being debated afresh, is the revelation last week that a leading television news presenter, Emily Maitlis, was stalked by a former university friend for 27 years. Breaking her silence, Emily said being stalked was like suffering from a chronic illness. Her stalker, Edward Vines, admitted breaching a restraining order which required him to stop writing letters to the presenter and her family. Oxford Crown Court heard that Vines developed an obsession with Emily at Cambridge University after she rejected his declaration of love in1990. He was sentenced to three years and nine months in jail. WASTED LIFE Ms Maitlis said: “He is unwell and has wasted half his life. Stalking is essentially mental ill health.” Stalking became a crime in Britain five years ago but many police protection orders carry no enforcement provisions. Currently going through Parliament is the Stalking Protection Bill with the object of giving legal status to such orders. *** Another tale of jealousy… Mo Ahmed and his wife had opened a gift shop but it wasn’t doing very well, so Ahmed took a second job at a restaurant. When his wife started going out and spending money in pubs, he was furious. Next time it happened, he telephoned a false bomb threat to the Duke of Wellington pub in Minehead, Somerset, which hurriedly closed. His wife lost her night out and the pub lost £840 in takings. A probation report said: “He felt annoyed she was spending money while he had to work to pay the bills. He was angry and wanted to ruin her night.” Judge Geoffrey Mercer handed Ahmed a six-month suspended jail sentence and ordered him to pay £840 compensation. “It was an extraordinary thing to do,” he said. *** A research company checked 2,000 people on the tricks they use to dodge work. These included toilet breaks, going to fictional funerals, booking meeting rooms for a gossip, browsing the internet, checking social media and going out for a walk. The company found that workers spend up to 50 minutes a day slacking off. *** I have reached the stage of going into another room then wondering why I am there. But I can now console myself that there are a lot of people worse than me. The Travelodge hotel chain has issued a list of the bizarre objects its guests left behind during 2017, including a Pink Panther costume, the keys to an Aston Martin and a wedding cake. With 19 million people staying in a Travelodge, it’s not surprising some things are left behind. But how could you forget a lifetime supply of Smartie sweets, a winning £100 lottery ticket, eight suitcases full of designer clothes and shoes and an urn containing the ashes of a pet? *** An absent-minded professor got onto a bus but found no vacant seats. A little girl jumped up and offered her seat. “Thank you, you’re a good girl,” said the professor, “what’s your name?” The girl replied, “Mary, daddy.” An absent-minded professor finally figured out how not to forget his wife’s birthday and their wedding anniversary. He gave a local florist those two dates with instructions to send flowers to his wife every time. This worked very well until one day he returned home and seeing a bouquet on the table, remarked, “Nice flowers, darling. Who sent them?” Gerryo69@hotmail.com  