The national exam body on Wednesday cancelled results of 1,205 Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education test candidates. The students were among the 1,727 that sat the tests in 10 schools whose results were withheld last month, pending investigations. However, Kenya National Examinations Council chairman George Magoha declined to give names of the schools involved in cheating. Prof Magoha said Knec hired between seven to eight teachers to read the candidates’ answer scripts afresh. BANNED MATERIALS He added that those whose results were cancelled were found with mobile phones or other banned materials in examination centres and rooms. Eleven candidates were found with phones in one centre while nine had unauthorised written information in the examination room. “There was collusion during the examinations in eight centres. Candidates produced identical responses,” Prof Magoha said at the Knec offices in Nairobi yesterday. Based on the investigations into allegations of cheating in the 10 centres, the Knec boss said it was clear examination papers or questions were not leaked. “None of the centres had received question papers in advance. In most of the cases, candidates had either carried unauthorised materials to the examination rooms or colluded,” Prof Magoha added. COLLUSION All candidates in one school accused of collusion in the examination were cleared of allegations and the 67 students received their results. “In two schools reported to have engaged in irregularities, investigations established that all the candidates — except one from each institution — had colluded. The two have received their results while those for 300 candidates in the two schools have been cancelled,” he added. “There was evidence of collusion among some candidates in three schools. The centres have been partially penalised. The council has, therefore, released results for 453 candidates and cancelled those for 163 found to have colluded.” Prof Magoha said there was evidence of irregularities in four schools where candidates colluded. “Results of the 742 candidates in the four schools have been cancelled,” he said.   Dr Matiang’i presented a brief of the results to President Kenyatta at State House, Mombasa.