Leaders in Trans Nzoia want the government to honour the late Yvonne Wamalwa, the wife of the late former Vice-President Michael Kijana Wamalwa accorded state burial. Speaking at the late VP’s home at Milimani estate in Kitale town on Friday, County Women Representative, Janet Nangabo, asked the government to offer the late Yvonne an honourable send off. “I appeal to the national government to stand with this family during this time since we understand the late Yvonne was part of this government,” she said. Ms Nangabo said through the Michael Wamalwa Foundation and Maendeleo ya Wanawake, Mrs Wamalwa contributed immensely to the transformation of the lives of the widows and the orphans in the society. As a widow, Mrs Wamalwa had encouraged other widows in the community to enhance peace and harmony in the society, Ms Nangabo said. Former Mayor of Kitale Municipality, John Wanyonyi, urged the government to accord her a state funeral in honour of the family. She is expected to be buried next to her husband at their Milimani home. According to the family’s spokesperson John Simiyu, the family was in talks with the county government of Trans Nzoia to be granted permission to bury her in the estate. Mr Simiyu said they had to seek permission as the Milimani estate was a lease hold, and being one of the potential areas for development in Kitale , there has to be a resolution from the assembly or the executive to allow for someone to be buried in the land "We are so shocked by the demise of our sister in-law, she was a high profile person as she has served this nation in various capacities and we would wish to have her buried here at Milimani,” he said. During last year’s 14th anniversary of the late Wamalwa at their Milimani home, Mrs Wamalwa was missing and according to the family she has been sickly for the better part of last year. Until her death, she served in various capacities including as Australia envoy.   Widow of former Vice President Michael Wamalwa Kijana passes on.