IN ACCRA, GHANA Defending champions Telkom Monday hit Kada Queens of Nigeria 3-0 on day three of the Africa Cup for Club Champions at the Theodosia Okoh Hockey Stadium in Accra, Ghana. Goals from Maureen Okumu, Jackline Mwangi and skipper Tracy Karanja gave the champions their third successive win of the tournament. The win cemented their place at the top of the standings with nine points and no goals conceded yet. The win pleased Telkom Coach Jos Openda, who now turns his focus on the duo of Ghana Revenue Authority and Ghana Police. “The tournament is just beginning, we now have three more games including the final which we are positive of making. “We have yet to concede a goal and that is a good thing, but we are missing too many scoring chances and that is something we have to work on ahead of our showdown with the Ghanaian sides,” Openda said. It was the second meeting between the two sides with Telkom winning 5-2 in their first clash during the 2016 competition held at the City Park Stadium, Nairobi. Telkom went on to win a ninth title, while the Nigerians, who were making their debut at the continental event, won bronze. In Monday’s match, Telkom were thwarted by a steel-walled defence early on, before they found the breakthrough in the 19th minute as international Maureen Okumu finished off a field goal past Kada keeper Ineh Komi. Telkom continued to pile more pressure with forwards Audrey Omaido and Jackline Mwangi all coming close to add to their team’s lead. The Kenyan side were reduced to 10 players in the 43rd minute as midfielder Barbara Simiyu was sin-binned but that did not deter them as they doubled their lead seconds later with Mwangi sounding the boards to take her tally to five in the competition. Four minutes from time, skipper Karanja made sure of the points as he finished off Flavia Mutiva’s short corner to condemn the Nigerians to their second loss of the competition. Tuesday is an official rest day for the competition before action resumes Wednesday. Telkom will come up against GRA before ending their preliminary round matches against Ghana Police on Thursday. The top two teams at the end of the preliminary round robin fixtures will face off in Saturday’s final.  