Embakasi East MP Babu Owino has been freed from Parklands Police Station, following Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja’s intervention. He had spent two nights in the cells following allegations of assault. RELEASED Mr Owino was released after Mr Sakaja gave a personal surety to produce him at the Milimani Law Court on Monday at 8am. Mr Sakaja criticised the police for politicising the criminal justice system. He also termed the assault accusations “petty”. The Jubilee senator arrived at the police station at 1pm, a few minutes after Nasa legislators had marched to the station to demand Mr Owino’s release. The legislators included Suna East MP Junet Mohamed, Mathare legislator Anthony Oluoch, Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga and former Embakasi South MP Irshad Sumra. “We may disagree in matters of politics, but we agree on one thing that Mr Babu Owino is a leader and Kenyan who has rights and deserves dignity. I have committed to avail him in court tomorrow,” said Mr Sakaja. ARREST The legislator was arrested on Friday afternoon outside Parliament Buildings after an alleged CCTV footage of him assaulting a parking attendant at an entertainment joint in Westlands, Nairobi, emerged on social media. He spent Friday and Saturday night in police cells after efforts by opposition leaders and University of Nairobi students to secure his freedom were unsuccessful. Nasa principals Raila Odinga and Moses Wetang’ula on Saturday went to Parklands Police Station, seeking to know why Mr Owino was arrested and demanding his release. But he was not released. On Sunday, Mr Owino claimed that he was arrested by 15 police officers. PROFESSIONALISM Mr Sakaja urged the police to be professional when carrying out their duties. “We are saying whoever is using the criminal justice system to score whichever goals should stop. If you think you are helping Jubilee, you are wrong and we have not asked you to do it for us,” said Mr Sakaja. The Nairobi senator said arresting Mr Owino on Friday evening was driven by “ill motives”. “Why didn’t the police officers summon Mr Owino on Monday or Tuesday to record a statement? We cannot allow politicisation of police service; they should leave politics to politicians. Everyone, whether in Nasa or Jubilee, deserves decorum as far as justice is concerned,” he said. “We are asking police officers to carry out their duties with professionalism. This is 2018 and not Kanu era where innocent Kenyans were kept in police cells for weeks before being arraigned in court.”  