A former city ward representative Monday denied taking part in the killing of his 24-year-old wife, insisting that he was also a victim of the crime. Former Riruta MCA Samwel Ndung’u, through his lawyer Robert Mutitu, said he escaped from the people who abducted him and his wife Lucy Njambi. However, the politician did not give details of the abduction and how he escaped unhurt. Police asked the court to allow them to continue holding the politician as investigations go on. Mr Mutitu said Mr Ndung’u was arrested at Kiambu Level Five Hospital where he had gone to visit his wife. ARREST “The arrest was because of pressure from Njambi’s relatives who are not in good terms with him,” said the lawyer. A badly injured Njambi was found at Kamiti Corner and taken to Kiambu Hospital before being referred to Kenyatta National Hospital, where she died. The politician had reportedly informed Njambi on Wednesday last week that he would visit her at Thindigua in Kiambu, which he did at around 8pm and gave her some money. The two are said to have had dinner, which was served by her househelp at the parking bay. As they were eating, two men pounced on the pair and sped away in what witnesses said appeared to be an abduction. RECORD STATEMENT Mr Ndung’u told the court that he was ready to record a statement with the police and give his side of the story. The former MCA said the death of his wife, who had moved out of his Lavington home, had really affected him. Pleading with the court to be allowed to go home, the politician said he had two families which depended on him. The court ordered his detention for 10 more days. Ms Catherine Gatheca from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations said police required 14 days to complete investigations into the death of Njambi. MENTAL ASSESSMENT She also said the former MCA would be required to undergo a mental assessment test before trial and that police officers would need time to get mobile phone communication between the couple and other people. The prosecution said Mr Ndung’u would likely interfere with the ongoing investigations if released. But Mr Mutitu said the two weeks being demanded by police were a lot, “considering that my client has been in custody for five days”. He added that the politician was asthmatic and required close medical attention.   MANHUNT Last week, Kiambu DCIO Paul Wambugu said detectives had launched a manhunt for two people suspected to be involved in the young mother’s rape and killing. He asked the public to volunteer information that could lead to their arrest. Meanwhile, the post-mortem examination on Njambi’s body that had been scheduled for Monday did not take place. Pathologists at Kenyatta National Hospital asked the family to show up at the mortuary Tuesdaymorning. “We arrived at the hospital at 8am and waited for three hours only for the doctors to ask us to return tomorrow at 9am,” Mr George Kimani, a family member told Nation. “We will move the body to Kenyatta University Funeral Home after the autopsy. We want to begin burial arrangements this week.” Njambi died a day after she was admitted to KNH last Thursday. Initial examination showed that her body had large-scale burns. Family members said they hoped the pathologists would reveal what caused the injuries on her body.   Former Riruta ward representative to be arraigned in court on Monday.