Expanding space for political activity is usually considered a sign of democratic progress but to lots of Kenyans, politics has become the Sword of Damocles that hangs over their daily lives. Since early last year, the people and the economy have suffered heavy losses from the prolonged periods of intense politicking. While studies are needed to quantify the impact of hardline politics on the economy, the quantum of losses can be estimated from the lost days and the prorated lost output of goods and services. ECONOMYThe economy, measured in gross domestic product, is estimated at more than $70 billion, or the equivalent of Sh7 trillion, based on the latest indicators for 2017. This means that on average, Kenyans produce some $190 million, or nearly Sh20 billion worth of goods and services every day. Each of the 48.5 million Kenyans contributes Sh145,000 a year to the economy. The reality, of course, is that some contribute more and others less, depending on their abilities, which also defines where they fall in the low, middle and upper income groups. These numbers indicate how much Kenyans gain in times of regular economic activity, and how much they lose when the flow of goods and services is interrupted. CHAOS Last year, politics was more disruptive to the economy than external and domestic shocks. Kenyans lost Sh20 billion each day that politics disrupted economic activity. The impact was more intensely felt in Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu. These towns have a total population of 5.6 million or 12 per cent of the national population and host the largest share of manufacturing and service industries.PRODUCTIVITYThe rural economy also suffers because youth spend their time and opportunities waiting for handouts from politicians instead of working. Market access for produce is also affected. And it performs below its potential because it has been left to the old, who are much less productive. Ageing farmers produce less and are unable to keep up with changing policies and technologies. This is a challenge globally, but more pronounced in countries like Kenya that experience recurrent drought and food deficits due to adverse weather and poor farming practices. HARD WORK The paradox of the political impact on the economy is that some politicians demand a bigger share of the national cake, but do not even contribute to baking it. Instead, they are preoccupied with disrupting activities that underpin economic growth and create jobs for youth. Some are directly implicated in the political violence and conflicts that shut down business and take the youth away from productive activities. It takes more than the ordinary prescriptions to ring-fence the economy from politics. One challenge is how to change the mindset of those brainwashed into believing that they can prosper without working. YOUTH Kenyans must practise and believe in a culture of hard work, not prophesies, phantoms, pyramid schemes, gambling and other get-rich quick promises. They must learn to sow the seed in the ground, not in the pockets of oracles and fortune tellers. The challenge for the government is to deepen policies and programmes that improve the livelihoods and economic opportunities for youth. Putting youth in quality jobs and entrepreneurship will reduce their vulnerability to exploitation. DEMOCRACYThe spirit of the Big Four pillars of economic development President Uhuru Kenyatta launched on Jamhuri Day last year is to increase opportunities for rapid economic growth and equity. Revving up manufacturing and improving food security, health care and housing, will have a transformative impact on the economy, to enable it grow faster than the usual annual rate of five per cent. Taming disruptive and destructive politics will contribute to better democracy and economic prosperity. Mr Warutere is a director of Mashariki Communications Ltd, ptwarutere@gmail.com  