Cup holders AFC Leopards welcome Ugandan side KCCA Wednesday in Machakos in what will be the Kenyan club’s first major engagement of the season. The friendly game will kick off at 3pm and will be used to prepare both sets of players for the upcoming engagements in the Caf Champions League and Confederation Cup which kick off next month. Kenya’s Gor Mahia have been paired against Equatorial Guinea champions Leones Vegetarianos in the Champions League while KCCA are drawn against Madagascan side CNaPS. Leopards, who won the GOtv Shield last year, have been in pre-season training for the last five weeks, and will be eager to demonstrate superiority against their international opponents as they prepare to mount an assault on this year’s Kenyan Premier League title. In the Confederation Cup, they have been drawn against Fosa Juniors of Madagascar. Coach Robert Matano will have a good opportunity to assess his 17 new signings during the match, while testing the fitness levels of the team ahead of the Super Cup clash against their arch rivals Gor Mahia scheduled for this Sunday. The 17 new players include Gor Mahia run away Collins “Gattuso” Okoth, Ezekiel Owade, forwards Ezekiel Otuoma and Ezekiel Odera, Ghanaian Prince Ako, Nigerian Henry Uche and Ugandan winger Baker Alukoya. GREAT POTENTIAL “This is just a friendly match but it is very important because we are both preparing for continental matches. “I have been with the new players for weeks now and they have demonstrated great potential. Wednesday will be another good opportunity to watch them and gauge their strengths,” said Matano. The Ugandan club is on a preseason tour of Kenya which saw them lose 4-2 to league champions Gor Mahia last Saturday, before recovering to beat Tusker 1-0 on Monday afternoon in Ruaraka. Tuesday's match against Ingwe will be their second last engagement before they play Sofapaka on Friday in Narok. KCCA on the other hand are missing four key players who are currently with the Ugandan national team in Morocco for the ongoing African Nations Championship. The four are Benjamin Ochan, Isaac Mulume, Sadaam Juma and star striker Derrick Nsibambi.  