The Teachers Service Commission  has gazetted the names of 41 teachers who have been deregistered for misconduct. In a gazette notice dated January 19, TSC chief executive Nancy Macharia said the teachers will not be allowed to teach in any schools across the country. Dr Macharia warned public and private schools heads against hiring unregistered teachers, saying they risk a fine of not less than Sh100,000 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or both. Reasons advanced for banning of the teachers were desertion of duty, having sexual relations with their students, insubordination, negligence,  examination cheating and financial embezzlement. The 41 teachers committed the offences between 2014 and 2017 with male teachers being 40. Most of the teachers are being kicked out of the profession for having sexual relations with their students. DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS More teachers facing disciplinary actions will be dealt with this year. A report by TSC indicates that it was unable to handle cases between  August and November last year due to the political environment due to elections and national examinations. The report also notes that new procedures of hearing and determining disciplinary cases for teachers have cut cases backlog  by up to 78 per cent. It says most cases are now being heard and determined within two months compared to more than six months previously. One average, the TSC hears 110 cases per month, according to the report. BANNED This follows a move to allow cases to be heard in counties under TSC directors and invitations of suspects through text messages and emails. In 2016, 22 teachers who had sex with their students were banned from ever teaching in Kenya while in 2015, another 126 teachers were deregistered due to misconduct in which 100 had sexual relations with their students. A monitoring report by TSC  indicates that the commission had by November last year completed 1,555 cases of discipline as opposed to 1,307 by the same time in 2016. There were 448 cases pending  by November 2017 as opposed 883 at the same time  in 2016. The report says 35 cases were heard between May and August at the counties.   Some had sex with their students, while others embezzled funds or neglected their duties.