Youth unemployment is Kenya’s greatest challenge, estimated at 17.3 per cent by the World Bank in comparison to six per cent in Uganda and Tanzania. The cruel irony is that the current generation of youth are the most educated population segment in Kenya’s history. Despite their high levels of education, why do many young men and women find themselves shut out of jobs? Could there be a mismatch between the education system and the job market demands? Possibly. This is because some of our universities and colleges promote more theoretical knowledge at the expense of practical market-driven skills. SKILLSJobs exist, especially in the fast-growing building and construction sector. The sector has grown on the back of rapid commercial real estate development and the rollout of infrastructure projects across the country. However, the technical skills needed are in short supply. Young engineers and architects are highly knowledgeable about the theoretical aspects of the job, but in most cases, fail to take advantage of the available computer design software tools to make them more effective and marketable. AUTOMATION Building and construction has become a highly automated field. Global consultancies, including those operating in Kenya, integrate modern technology in the planning, design and construction of their projects. Unfortunately, most universities and colleges train architects and engineers to use software that is more than 20 years old. Manufacturing engineering had previously been dented by inefficiencies due to manual planning. Now engineers and manufacturers make decisions faster and much earlier at the concept stage and are keener on marketing than fixing design problems. TECHNOLOGY Consultants, contractors and developers adopting Building Information Modelling (BIM) experience tremendous benefit in terms of cost and construction management. Projects are implemented within schedule, allowing developers to service their loans on time. In the UK, 82 per cent of contractors use BIM software and in the US, it is 75 per cent. University education needs to be combined with technical training on how to use computer applications. This training takes only a few months to equip one with the skills to be highly marketable. TRAININGUS blue chip companies such as Autodesk and Bentley Systems provide architects and engineers with software and training through independent certified resellers and trainers. In Kenya, one of the resellers and trainers of design software for Autodesk and Bentley is Nairobi-based Centre for Innovation Technology (Citech). Over the past decade that I have been the managing director, I have witnessed increased adoption of modern design software. Some of the clients that Citech has trained include the United Nations Operations Office Nairobi, Athi Water Services Board, Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company, KenGen and the UNHCR. JOBSFormer Citech students have found good jobs. The fact that most fresh graduates in engineering and architecture are not familiar with modern design software, yet this is what the market demands, explains why many cannot get jobs. In today’s competitive business environment, recruiters tend to avoid candidates who need additional training after being hired. They want people who can deliver results immediately. This is happening in the building and construction industry, where employers bypass candidates, even graduates, who are not familiar with modern design software. Being at the cutting edge of technology is what will enable professionals find jobs. Ms Cauri is the managing director of Citech. Joyce.cauri@citech.com  