Controversy is brewing over Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu’s plan to dissolve water and sewerage companies to form one giant firm. Mr Waititu has said the plan to merge the regional water firms are at in top gear. According to the governor, the move is aimed at improving service delivery. However, a section of residents have opposed the plan, saying it is ill-informed. Thika residents have threatened to move to court to challenge the plan, which Mr Waititu claims has the full backing of President Uhuru Kenyatta. They warned that the merger will compromise service delivery. UNSTOPPABLE But Mr Waititu has said his determination to dissolve the firms is unstoppable. He has branded those opposing the plans as cartels that have been running water business in the region. The governor wants Thika, Gatundu, Githunguri, Kiambu, Karuri, Kikuyu, Ruiru-Juja, Limuru Water and Karimenu merged to form Kiambu Water and Sewerage Company. According to the governor, the individual companies have been operating as cartels by selling water to residents at exorbitant prices. “Key stakeholders were consulted (on the merger), including residents, who have raised key issues like cartels that have been selling water to them at exorbitant prices, while individual companies have failed to ensure every resident has access to clean water and reliable supply,” he said. He added that managing directors of the firms agreed to effect the merger on January 19. COERCION But Thika manufacturers, traders and residents accused the governor of coercing the firms to agree to his plans, and failing to involve the public in the plans. Thika District Business Association chairman Alfred Wanyoike said the county should instead expand the capacity of the existing firms by putting up dams to increase water supply. “Instead of planning how to centralise the water companies, the county should think of putting up dams to increase water supply and supplement the current services,” Mr Wanyoike said. Opposing voices have also come from a section stakeholders from other regions in the county who want the county to retract on the move and come up with alternative remedy to water issues. They claim Mr Waititu’s move is against the spirit of devolution of “bringing resources and services closer to the people”.  