The High Court has rejected an application by Nakumatt landlords seeking to evict the financially troubled retailer, and instead told the property owners to give newly appointed administrator time to try and turn around the business. Justice Fredrick Ochieng, in his ruling on an application by landlords seeking to take over their building, said the administrators appointed a week ago should be given some time. The landlords wanted the retail chain to be liquidated but a week ago the court allowed appointment of an administrator to run Nakumatt’s affairs until it gets back on its feet. Instead the Judge has encouraged the landlords to take active role in monitoring the administration, noting that the state of the retailer will be much clearer after 60 days when the administrator reports back to the court on the progress made. “If the landlords were to be authorised to immediately re-enter their premises and thus remove Nakumatt therefrom, that is likely to impede the achievement of the purpose of the administration,” said the judge. The judge said the purpose of the administrator is to give the company an opportunity to raise enough money to benefit all creditors, including the unsecured creditors who risk losing all their money. One week ago, Justice Ochieng gave Nakumatt a lifeline to fight for its recovery after it allowed the appointment of an administrator. The judge ordered Peter Obondo Kahi to be appointed as an administrator under the provisions of Section 563 of the Insolvency Act. Consequently, this keeps at bay the landlords who have been queuing to evict Nakumatt from its premises, unless allowed by court or by consent of the administrator. READ: Reprieve for struggling Nakumatt as court allows administrator to take over The administrator is expected to, within 60 days of his appointment, ensure a meeting of all Nakumatt creditors is held and address all their concerns. Landlords have in the course of the application and hearing the case put up spirited fight to block the appointment of the administrator since it bars them from evicting Nakumatt unless granted by the court or through consent of the administrator. In his ruling Justice Ochieng told landlords that they are free to make fresh applications to court to evict Nakumatt. The administrator has already taken over the management of the company and Tuskys and Nakumatt has applied to the Competition watchdog for clearance to help the ailing lender. READ: Nakumatt’s new manager takes over from Atul Tuskys had said it would inject Sh650 million for rental dues owed to 27 landlords and staff salaries, and restock Nakumatt to the tune of Sh3 billion, subject to the creditors accepting the terms and subsequently paving the way for administrators to be appointed.  