Legendary South African trumpeter and composer Hugh Masekela has died, his family has confirmed.A statement released on Tuesday said the jazz legend died peacefully surrounded by family. CANCERMasekela, 78, had been battling prostrate cancer since 2008. His Twitter handle read "No more pain."   In a statement, the family expressed their grief, saying he was “a loving father, brother, grandfather and friend. "Our hearts beat with profound loss.“Hugh Masekela was someone who always engaged robustly with the press on musical and social political issues." The family said it would in due course release details of memorial and burial services.   PRIVACY“We laud the press for respecting his privacy through his convalescence, and during this, our time of grief. Our gratitude to all and sundry for your condolences and support,” it added in the statement released by PR firm Dreamcatcher.The family remembered Mr Masekela’s contribution to and participation in the areas of music, theatre, and the arts. JAZZ Masekela, commonly referred to as the 'father of South African jazz', enthralled fans with his songs for decades. The hit Stimela, meaning coal train, released in 1994, has remained an all-time favourite for many fans. His other song Bring Him Back Home, released in a 1987 album, became a hit as it was an anti-apartheid protest song that demanded the release Nelson Mandela. He has performed all over the world, including in Kenya, and his shows were well attended.   TRIBUTE As news of the legend's death spread, tributes poured in from all over the world praising him for his contribution to music and his fight against apartheid. @KhanyiDhlomo tweeted: "Such devastating news about the passing on of SA's Father of Jazz Hugh Masekela. Condolences to the Masekela family. Lala ngoxolo Bra Hugh. What a life. What a legend." @PieterHowes tweeted: "Bra Hugh Masekela!!! Another titan has fallen. What a gift he was, not only to musicians and devoted fans, but also to the spirit of the struggle against Apartheid. Through music -- a most powerful unifying tool -- he took SA to world, and brought the world to SA." FAMILY Masekela was once married to renowned artist Miriam Makeba, who also took the world by storm and won a Grammy Award. She was also an anti-apartheid opponent and died in Italy in 2008. Masekela is the father of Sal Masekela, an American television host.   He had been battling prostrate cancer since 2008.