Information, Communication and Technology (ICT) Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru recently announced plans to launch money transfer services across mobile networks. This implies that consumers will in the near future enjoy seamless money transfer services across mobile platforms. The move is long overdue, given the phenomenal growth of mobile money services in recent years. JOBSWallet-to-wallet interoperability, as it is known, can be simply explained as money transfers from provider to provider without having to first withdraw cash from one platform to send on another. Seamless money transfer from operator to operator will offer consumers more convenience and reduce transaction costs. It will also create more jobs by attracting new entrants to the mobile money market and encouraging intermediaries offering one-stop services. FINANCIAL INCLUSIONIt is virtually impossible in Kenya today to carry out business and social interactions without mobile money. Given the ubiquitous role of mobile money services in our society and economy, this is one area requiring urgent reforms to drive cross-platform efficiency and accessibility, prerequisites for achieving financial inclusion. The move by the government and sector regulators to implement wallet-to-wallet interoperability is driven by the need to address the challenges facing mobile money providers and consumers, primarily lack of a seamless platform across operators. Businesses, industries and sectors evolve over time as a result of economic, social and political forces, hence the need for reforms to make them more efficient and competitive and, therefore, responsive to consumer needs and expectations. PARTICIPATIONBut in undertaking far-reaching reforms in the ICT sector, the government must involve all stakeholders and most importantly consumers. This is particularly the case in ICT where one player exerts dominance, thus having considerable influence on policy reforms in the sector. Fortunately, our legal framework provides a clear mechanism for consumer participation in policy formulation and implementation. The Constitution guarantees the rights of the consumer. Article 46 provides, inter alia, that “consumers have the right to information necessary for them to gain full benefit from goods and services”. DECISION-MAKINGConsumers are entitled to information, including decisions and measures affecting them. Since they are the ultimate beneficiaries or losers in decision-making by government as well as public and private entities, it is only fair that users of goods and services are accorded an opportunity to offer ideas and input in policies and other decisions. Consumers can do this through public participation as provided for in the Constitution and other laws. The guiding principles of participation require that the public, communities and organisations to be affected by a decision have to be consulted and involved in the decision-making. COMMUNICATION AUTHORITYThe decision to open up the mobile money services market is laudable. The process should however be open, transparent and fair and involve all stakeholders. Indeed, delay in implementing wallet-to-wallet interoperability has been cited as a major constraint in instilling competition in Kenya’s mobile money services market. This was one of the highlights of a recent report on Kenya’s telecommunications market. Based on a study conducted by UK consulting firm Analysys Mason, the report recommends that the Communications Authority set a clear timetable for the implementation of wallet-to-wallet interoperability between all the licensed mobile money platforms in Kenya. CHALLENGESClearly, the government appears intent on implementing this. However, as the report notes, there is a need for stakeholder involvement in addressing the challenges facing the telecommunications industry. The government should reach out to the various stakeholders, including mobile money providers, consumer lobbies, industry associations and other interested parties in rolling out an integrated mobile money services regime. The government should not limit itself to cross-platform mobile money transfer, but also address other outstanding competition issues, including structural barriers to entry into the telecoms industry. Failure to address these issues only serves to lend credence to insinuations that the government might be protecting some players to the detriment of their competitors and consumers. Mr Choto is a lawyer and public affairs specialist. kingorichoto@gmail.com  