Former Kenya international skipper Mike Okoth will be the chief sports celebrity guest during the 2017 Sports Personality of the Year Award (Soya) Gala on Wednesday at Kenyatta International Convention Centre. Okoth confirmed his attendance Monday as the event’s organisers got a major boost when they received sponsorship of Sh 6 million from National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) and MultiChoice/SuperSport at the Laico Regency Hotel. NHIF chief executive officer Geoffrey Mwangi handed over Sh 4 million sponsorship up from Sh 1 million last year to Soya panel of judges chairman Watson Karuma while MultiChoice corporate affairs manager Philip Wahome handed in a cheque of Sh 1 million while their partners SuperSport will further spend Sh 1 million on television production for the gala. Okoth, 50, who represent the Harambee Stars in the Africa Cup of Nations in 1990, 1992 and 2004, earned his first international call up in the 1989 Cecafa Cup turning out for a Kenya 'B' team. Okoth, who spend most of his professional career in Belgium, is the father to Belgian international footballer, Divock Origi while former Harambee Stars Arnold Origi, who is now a Norwegian citizen is his nephew. Divock plays for English Premier League side Liverpool while Arnold, who is a goalkeeper for Norwegian Tippeligaen side Lillestrøm, is the son to former Kneyan international Austin Oduor. Kaplich Barsito from Paul Tergat Foundation said Okoth is due in the country Tuesday from London. Back at the sponsorship presentation, Mwangi said NHIF is glad to be associated with this noble idea, this being the eighth year they are to supporting the gala. “The reason why we decided to increase the package is that we have been encouraged by the performance of our athletes who should be rewarded accordingly to good results,” said Mwangi. Favourites to win the Sports Personality of the Year-male are World champions Conseslus Kipruto (3,000m steeplechase), Elijah Manangoi (1,500m) and Geoffrey Kirui (Marathon). Also in contention for the category are Berlin Marathon champion Eliud Kipchoge, who won the category last year and Kenya Rugby Club full-back Darwin Mukidza. World and Diamond League Series champions Hellen Obiri (5,000m) and Faith Chepng’etich (1,500m) and World marathon silver medallist Edna Kiplagat have been tipped for the Sports Personality the Year-female alongside Kenya women’s sevens rugby team Lionesses player Snaida Aura and Malkia Strikers and Kenya prisons volleyballer Edith Wisa. Samuel Muchai, who won the Sports Person Living with a Disability-male last year, finds himself once again among the favo5uites for the category after winning two gold medals in T11 in 1,500m and 5,000m at the 2017 World Para Athletics Championships in London in July. Muchai will battle Simon Cherono, Lucas Wanjiru, Daniel Kiptum and John Koech. Cherono, who won medals from Deaflympic Games in Turkey. Cherono won the 5000m and 10,000m gold medals besides bronze in 1,500m in Turkey. Also vying for the top accolades in the category are Daniel Kiptum, who won men’s marathon, silver in 10,000m and bronze in 5,000m. Wanjiru broke the 3,000m steeplechase Deaflympics World record with a time of 9:04.82 to win the gold medal at the Deaflympics while Koech won gold medal in 1,500m. Berly Wamira, who won two silver medals in 100m and 200m at the Deaflympics faces Hannah Wakonyo, who won bronze in 5,000m at the Deaflympics, Nelly Sile (Athletics), Purity Mueni (Volleyball) and Jane Ndenga (Tennis) are vying for Sports Person Living with a Disability-female honours.World Under-18 champions Jackline Wambui) and Carren Chebet (2,000m steeplechase) and Mary Moraa, who won silver in 400m at the World Under-18 Championships are in contention for Most Promising Girl award alongside Angela Okutoyi (lawn Tennis) and Vanessa Adhiambo (Cricket). The boys’ vanguard has World Under-18 2,000m steeplechase champion Leonard Bett, Vincent Oburu (soccer), Abhishek Chidambaran and Aman Gandhi all from cricket and Sheil Kotecha (Tennis). Those up for Federation of the Year accolades are Athletics Kenya, Cricket Kenya and Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association while Coach of the Year vanguard has Curtis Olago (KCB Rugby), Jimmy Kamande (National Cricket Under-19 coach), Jos Openda (Telkom Kenya hockey team), Kevin Wambua (Kenya Lionesses rugby team) and Manoah Edward (Vihiga United, soccer).Allan Thigo (soccer) and Stephen Muchoki (Boxing) are due to be inducted to the Hall of Fame.  