The government has issued Sh100 million for the relocation and construction of Mama Ngina Girls’ High School on a 10-acre piece of land at Shimo La Tewa in Shanzu, Mombasa County. The prestigious national school, which was established in 1988 as a public double streamed boarding school, is housed in less than an acre  of land at Kizingo in Mombasa town. It also lacks a playground. Acting Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i said that by January 2019, the school will be relocated to Shanzu and even accommodate day scholars. Currently the school is a boarding facility. “We have found a site within Mombasa where we will relocate this school. It is bigger. We will immediately begin construction so that by January of 2019 we start moving some of the things,” the CS said. President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to lay the foundation stone at the new site. EXPANSION “I was sent here by the President because several times he has been at the Coast, leaders from this region have been approaching him on the possibility of expanding this school. The leaders have also been urging the government to provide more resources for girls’ education in Coast region,” Dr Matiang’i explained. He said the President has heeded the calls by the Coast leaders. The CS said the government will build a huge facility to accommodate more girls. The government will also work closely with Coast leaders to uplift education standards. “Be confident and focused in your studies. God has provided for you and we have enough resources for your success. We will provide you with an enabling environment. There are no two ways about succeeding, its only through honesty and hard work. Don’t lie, engage in crime or fraud,” Dr Matiang’i advised the students. 20 COMPUTERS The CS will meet Coast leaders to discuss education standards particularly focusing on girls. Dr Matiang’i also gave the institution 20 computers under the computer for schools programme. According to the letter signed by the Education Principal Secretary Belio Kipsang, the Ministry will provide the institution with an infrastructure grant of Sh100 million to assist in relocating from its current location to Shimo La Tewa. “You are, however, instructed to ensure the government procurement procedures are strictly adhered to,” read the letter. Dr Matiang’i issued the letter to the Principal Mwanamisi Omar amidst cheers from the teachers and students. Last year, the school registered 172 candidates for KCSE exam and 90 joined university. NO CHEATING “Majority of the students got C grades. We thank you for streamlining education sector, there is no cheating, every student gets the deserving marks,” Ms Omar said. Ms Omar said the school is integrated with students from all over the country including Wajir, Kisumu and Nakuru. “By Friday our classes will be 100 per cent full. This year we received girls with very high marks, 40 have above 400 marks.   Revision of course choices expected to start next Wednesday.