I take a very old-fashioned view when it comes to the role of journalism in society. I believe freedom of the media does not mean much without the freedom to offend and to hold to account people in authority. I don’t believe in the theory of responsible journalism, especially if it amounts to summoning editors to State House and directing them to subject their practice to the whims of the Cabinet Secretary Information and Communications, Mr Joe Mucheru, his Internal Security counterpart, Dr Fred Matiang’i, Attorney-General Githu Muigai, or even President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. Tuesday’s decision by the government to shut down television stations took us a leap closer to authoritarianism. PRESS FREEDOM You see, if you believe in press freedom, you will also appreciate that the concept of freedom of the press is predicated on two things: First, that journalism must be trusted to publish what it wants. Secondly, and even more important, in my view, is that the public must be trusted to watch what they want and determine the truth or not of what is being broadcast. Indeed, what happened was not just a ruthless clampdown on broadcasting stations. Rather, it was a grotesque display of the disdain that people in authority have for the ordinary TV viewer and citizen, who sat in his or her living room for the whole day, waiting to watch the events at Uhuru Park, Nairobi. Clearly, Mr Mucheru, Dr Matiang'i, Prof Muigai, and the other wielders of power who made the decision to shut down the stations regard the ordinary citizen and TV viewer as some impressionable plebeian, who cannot think for himself or herself. The deep contempt is informed by a mind-set that snobbishly regards ordinary citizens as gullible dummies with no rational faculties of their own, who should be shielded from being influenced by what the wielders of power don’t like. AT A CROSSROADS The shutdown is a poignant sign of the illiberal times we live in today. Indeed, we are at a crossroads, going through a new wave of illiberalism that is sweeping through the body-politic with unprecedented ferocity. Just the other day, we were treated to a spectacle, where a senior staffer in the Office of the Deputy President was recorded threatening a reporter with dire consequences for writing a story he did not like, and bragging how he was capable of influencing the reporter’s sacking. The ruthless clampdown will once again make Kenya attract global newspaper headlines for the wrong reasons. The risk premium is bound to be raised not only in so far as the broadcasting sector is concerned, but also in the broader telecommunications industry. INVESTORS Indeed, this is bound to spark a new bout of investor uncertainty in the sector. It is a statement about the state of regulation of broadcasting and telecommunications, exposing this critical sector as operating under a framework that is vulnerable to political meddling, arbitrary decision-making, and to changes that an investor is not able to predict. The signal out there is that of an investment climate where you can wake up one day only to discover that your TV station has been shut down and your licences arbitrarily revoked. Indeed, the regulator, the Communications Authority of Kenya (CA), which actually effected the shutdown, has been exposed as having no mettle to protect the interests of investors. As things stand, and with the saga about the swearing- in of Nasa leader Raila Odinga out of the way, we must now wait to see what the government’s next move will be. LICENCES The government had threatened to cancel the licences of broadcasters if they defied the directive by State House not to mount live broadcasts. Whether it will go to the next stage and actually cancel licences, as State House had threatened, remains to be seen. But we must all pray that the broadcasters will be allowed to resume business soonest. The broadcasting industry is currently navigating through hard economic times, their top lines hit by declining advertising revenues, crippling spectrum fees, and dwindling working capital. Broadcasters are in no place to either survive protracted disruptions arising from unnecessary disputes with the government nor the harsh macro-economic environment that has seen even blue-chip companies issuing profit warnings. It is jobs that are at stake here. My parting shot to the government is a saying a wise man uttered many years ago: “You cannot enjoy the advantage of a free press without putting up with its inconveniences. You cannot pluck a rose without its thorns.” I rest my case.  jaindikisero@gmail.com  