The Nairobi county government has gone to court to stop all payments to its creditors amounting to about Sh60 billion. In case documents filed on Monday, Governor Mike Sonko argued his office has huge amounts of accrued debts from previous administrations and which cannot be settled owing to laws governing appropriation of funds before use. KIDERO While blaming former Governor Evans Kidero’s tenure and the defunct Nairobi City Council for incurring the huge debts which have accrued interests, Mr Sonko noted that his administration had not been well furnished with the status of payment of the pending decrees. Through lawyer Elias Mutuma, the governor said various creditors had sought to attach the county property. He added that the creditors had also sought arrest warrants against some county officials yet his office is the custodian of public property. “The county is caught up in a situation where it is not able to take appropriate legal action in the interest of the public and prudent use of public resources for lack of express powers to do so,” said Mr Mutuma. While promising that the county intended to settle the debts amounting to Sh57,694,204,678 in six months, he said there was a need to conduct an internal audit to protect public property. ARREST “The Nairobi county government is experiencing financial constraints that have made it difficult for it to meet its monthly obligations as well as settle debts by its predecessors and particularly the decretal sums issued,” said Mr Mutuma. He noted that there were several warrants of arrest issued against county officials, which had consequently affected the functioning of the county government. The county chief finance officer and acting county secretary are some of the officials who arrest warrants have been issued against. Mr Mutuma added that there was also a risk of making double payments if proper verification is not done. At the same time, Mr Sonko said yesterday he had no regrets over his deputy Polycarp Igathe’s decision to resign. CITY RESIDENTS He said he was ready to work alone to deliver services for city residents. Speaking after opening Nairobi MCAs Sectoral Committee on Water and Sanitation workshop at Pride Inn Hotel in Mombasa, Mr Sonko said would work with other elected leaders and professionals to serve city residents. “I have professors with me and other elected leaders around. I have also been a senator, a Member of Parliament and God is there. Work will continue. We will serve our people and ensure they get what we promised them,” he said. Asked if he was ready to reconcile with his deputy, Mr Sonko said he would “consult” Nairobi residents and his party. “What dialogue? Those are issues that I cannot address here. They concern the people of Nairobi and I will talk about them when I get there. I cannot decide now,” he said.  