The leadership of the National Assembly committee on Labour and Social Welfare has taken a new twist after Jubilee members wrote to Speaker Justin Muturi requesting for a repeat election. The MPs are now claiming that they were not in their right senses when they voted Nandi Hills MP Mr Alfred Keter as the committee chairman and Bungoma Woman Representative Catherine Wambilianga (Nasa) as vice-chairperson in the December 14, 2017 election. Mr Keter has however, dismissed their petition saying it has no force of the law even as he warned the MPs that they stand to lose their parliamentary seats if it is discovered they voted without their conscience. “They have written to the speaker in their individual capacities requesting that another election be held. But I also request that they be examined medically to determine their mental status,” Mr Keter said. “It could also mean that they were not in their right senses when they contested in the August 8, 2017 elections, something that could put a lot of doubt in the eligibility as members of parliament,” he said. The office of the Speaker was yet to confirm or deny Mr Keter’s allegations. This comes as the Jubilee party dewhiped the MP alongside his colleagues Silas Tiren (Moiben), Kangogo Bowen (Marakwet East), James Gakuya (Embakasi North) and Alex Kosgey (Emgwen) for vying against the party’s preferred list of individuals. However, the removal was suspended by the high court in Nairobi pending the hearing and determination of a case they filed. Mr Tiren beat Mandera South MP Mr Adan Haji Ali for the leadership of the Agriculture committee while Mr Bowen defeated Ijara MP Ms Sophia Abdi, who was jubilee choice for the vice chairperson of the Environment and Natural Resources committee. Mr Kosgey was de-whipped despite losing the leadership of Trade, Industry and Cooperatives to Kieni MP Mr Kanini Kega, who had the blessings of his party Mr Gakuya also went against the wishes of jubilee to be elected chairman of the Parliamentary Broadcasting and Library committee. Members of these committees have also petitioned the Speaker for repeat elections in their committees.  