AFC Leopards will play leading Ugandan side Kampala Capital City Authority (KCCA) in Machakos on January 24 in a high profile friendly match. Ingwe will also use the occasion to officially introduce all their new season signings as they continue to prepare for their eagerly anticipated Super Cup clash with bitter rivals Gor Mahia in Nakuru on January 28. Leopards’ secretary general, Oscar Igaida announced that the 13-time league champions will also face Sudan’s football giants Al Hilal in Machakos on February 4 in another high profile friendly match before travelling to Kakamega for residential training in readiness for their Confederation Cup preliminary round, first leg match against Fosa Juniors of Madagascar. The tie will be held at Bukhungu Stadium on February 10 as Leopards seek to announce their return to continental football with a mighty roar. Igaida expressed confidence that the squad to be unveiled in Machakos was capable of delivering this year’s Kenyan Premier League title. Robert Matano’s squad was Thursday boosted with the arrival of Ghanaian striker Eric Kwadena Bekoe who has agreed a two-year contract. The 30-year-old experienced hit man, who trained with the team, played for fabled Asante Kotoko and once won the team’s top scorer’s gong. Another Ghanaian, Prince Arkoh, who had gone back home for clearance, returned yesterday while Henry Uche Ifeanyi from Nigeria is expected to land Friday. ATTACKING MIDFIELDER Arkoh is a striker from Sekondi Hassaacas of Ghana while Ifeanyi is an attacking midfielder who previously played for Shooting Stars of Nigeria before he transferred to Albanian club, FK Kukesi. Leopards have also completed signing former Kakamega High School attacking midfielder, Mervin Omondi and loaned Ramadhan Kibiringo to Wazito FC. Ingwe are also chasing the signature of Chemelil’s keeper Adira. Other foreigners in the Leopards’ lair are defender Erick Oduro from Hearts of Oak of Ghana and Baker ‘Bakerazy’ Lukooya from Uganda Premier League side, Soana FC. 
 