Kimorori Wempa MCA Amos Murigi was arrested on Tuesday and arraigned at a Murang'a court over the morning chaos at the county assembly. He did not take a plea. Chaos had erupted when two warring factions clashed over majority party leadership, just two weeks after they fought at a Kiambu hotel over the same issue. FACTIONS A faction led by Mr Murigi, who was elected in the controversial Kiambu meeting, had gone to occupy the offices. They first visited Deputy Speaker Kihurunjo Mwangi’s office and handed him the letter effecting the changes. Mr Mwangi gave him the go-ahead to occupy the office, effectively replacing Mr Eric Kamande. On January 5, Mr Murigi's camp met at a hotel in Kiambu and replaced Mr Kamande, accusing him of failing to discharge his duties. In the meeting, two MCAs and a Jubilee party official were beaten up by hired goons after they challenged the process of replacing Mr Kamande and Chief Whip Simon Wamwea. On when Mr Murigi arrived at the majority leader’s office on Tuesday, Mr Kamande would not let him occupy the office. "Get out of my office. I am the legitimate majority leader and you cannot evict me," Mr Kamande said. FIST FIGHT At this point, Nominated MCA Stephen Habire Chege came into the office to defend Mr Kamande, saying the replacement was stopped. "Move out of the office.  We will not allow you to cause bloodshed the way you did in Kiambu. You deserve to be in jail,” Mr Chege told the rival group. Hell broke loose with MCAs engaging in a fist fight after two members tried to wrestle with Mr Murigi and his team. After about five minutes of fighting, the group allied to Mr Murigi urged his team to get out of the office. DISPUTE Mr Murigi said he was elected on January 5 in accordance with the law by the caucus at Nairobi, while Mr Kamande stood his ground that he was still the majority leader. But Mr Kamande said: "You can't eject me out of the office illegally yet there is a letter from Jubilee Party headquarters instructing the status quo to remain, pending its determination." Mr Murigi said the said letter from the party was fake and he does not recognise it. Mr Kamande said he would sue the 15 MCAs for destroying office document. Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria said no change of leadership would be effected on his watch. Speaking in Murang’a Town, he accused the deputy speaker of occasioning the fights.   Officials suspended to pave way for investigations into the fracas in Kiambu.