Dear Young One, I suspect I may have written something similar to this a year or two back. But I find myself having to answer these questions again and again. I know, fashion seems like the most amazing career you can think of now. It’s shiny and glam and you think you want in. I’m here to tell you, you really don’t. Want to be a model? Great. Let me be kind to be cruel. If you are anything below 5 foot 9, chances of you making it as a runway model are incredibly slim. If you want to be a plus size model who goes internationally, you actually need to be taller to balance out the proportions of your upper and lower body. Regardless of whichever side you fall, you must take care of your skin, hair and body. It’s not enough to tell people you want this. You need to do your homework. I can’t break down the entire industry for you in a minute. You need to have some kind of knowledge. Google is really grossly underestimated by any aspiring fashion people. You have to make an effort. Try to know stuff. For instance, you need a series of images to showcase yourself. You have to be prepared to work hard and do small shows. RISK No one is going to give you a magazine cover if you have never done any kind of shoot before. It is too big a risk to trust a newbie with an entire cover. You must have been tried and tested in various ways. If you expected anything else, that only ever happens in the movies. The same goes for potential MUAs or makeup artistes. Yes, we get it, you watched You Tube. But until you have a fully developed kit that is not only expensive but also the result of building networks, hold that thought. You can be self taught, yes, but there are all kinds of skin and products, and you need to find avenues to get more knowledge. You need to work with other people in the industry to learn the things you can’t be taught. Anything in fashion is a constant education. Aside from that, there are many kinds of skills needed for editorial, commercial shoots, TV, red carpet and event makeup and real life makeup. There are nuances you have to figure out. Your own techniques that you will have to acquire, hangups you will need to unlearn. It is going to take you time. So a stub of eyepencil, a sole black liner, a foundation and a concealer, not even enough for the average woman. Stop rushing. There is no finishing line. STYLISTS This could be repeated for all the wanna-be stylists, photographers, hairdressers, bloggers, fashion designers; there will be blood. It is a very competitive field and the problem is everyone wants the same careers. Allow yourself to expand your interests.  Just because you are drawn to one thing does not mean that is all you can be. There are tentacles to every career and if you are not observant, keen, curious and yes, very hard working, you may as well quit right now. No one has it easy. At least not anyone doing something meaningful. If you are getting into a career because you think you will be rich and famous, bye. The industry does not need you. You are going to have to do a lot of homework before you approach anyone to help you along. SOCIAL MEDIA Pay attention to what is happening in the industry; locally, regionally, internationally. Follow people in the field you are interested in on social media. See if and where you feel that spark move you. Read up on their been there done that stories. Watch clips of them having conversations. Meet them if and when you can. Read up on the subject. Read some more. Think for yourself. Then read. Use your imagination. Then read again. You will notice anyone who is someone in the industry has charted a career path where you can tell how they have grown. You can see the choices they made and how it affected them along the way. Prepare for constant, unrelenting growth.  If this is still appealing to you, welcome to fashion. 2018 is going to kick your newbie butt. And you are going to love it. All the best, Carol.  