One function humans have filthily and efficiently done is pollute the Earth. As if that isn’t enough—and the clean-up hasn’t even begun—they are at it in space. The discussion here is about the Earth’s orbit, not the entire galaxy. That’s where very smart people wallowing in mind-boggling technologies are positioning satellites. Most don’t come return to the Earth. Those that “die” their “limbs” remain there, whirling at thousands of miles per minute. Sure, some break up. But a knitting niddle at such speeds can be lethal. The Economist reports some millions of objects measuring more than a centimetre are up there. A scientist for the US National Aerospace and Space Administration (NASA) demonstrates the human cavalier attitude of what some of these objects can do were they to re-enter the Earth intact. SPACE JUNK Six years ago, he said: “Things have been re-entering ever since the dawn of the space age; to date nobody has been injured by anything that’s re-entered,” says Gene Stansbery, Nasa’s orbital debris section head. He was commenting on the re-entry to the Earth of 47.25 cubic metre cylinder weighing 5.9 metric tons, 20 years-old. It scattered debris over six continents. Well, the fact nobody been injured or killed by the Earth re-entering space junk doesn’t necessarily mean it wouldn’t happen. Ask the dinosaurs, Researchers have known that and have unsuccessfully proposed ways of cleaning up the junk, to take it—you’ve guessed: Earth, and obviously into humankind’s largest dumps: oceans. Good luck creatures larking there! NUMERICAL SIMULATIONS Now, researchers at the Airforce Engineering University in China have a new proposal. They argue, based on numerical simulations, that a space-based laser station will blast the big objects to tiny bits. That would be good for functioning satellites—essential in communications and all manners of research—because possibilities of them and the debris colliding would be minimized. The Earth’s orbit though is increasingly getting crowded. Launching satellites used to be a preserve of governments, Now, billionaires are in the business of launching satellites. Anyone with money can buy a satellite—universities make them, too—put some mice inside, just for the heck of it, pay a launcher and wait for mice’s return. While the Chinese proposal is feasible, the researchers are yet to explain what all the tiny bits of the debris will do to the rays of the Sun that creatures on the Earth need; or to the Moon and ocean tides, ad infinitum. By the way, US astronauts left some junk on the Moon, a golf-cart-like contraption included, dirtying what used to inspire lovers. Moreover, the proposed laser “debris terminators” would be massive weapon. Under whose control? (cmbitiru@hotmail.com)  