The Tana River County government will buy 40 tonnes of maize from farmers in Bura to be used for relief supplies. This follows the farmers’ complaints of lack of a ready market for their produce. Speaking to journalists, Governor Dhadho Godhana said the county will buy a 90kg bag of maize at Sh4000. The purchase is to start immediately. “I have instructed senior officers from my office and that of special programmes to meet the youthful farmers in Bura Village Six and procure the 445 bags of maize immediately at the cost of Sh4000 per 90kg bag,” he said. RELIEF SUPPLIES Mr Godhana said the maize will then be transported to the county headquarters’ store where it will be weighed and checked in. He also said the maize will later be distributed in all the hunger-stricken areas in all wards to mitigate the effects of the severe drought that has hit the county. “All the maize will be distributed to all hunger-stricken areas on the basis of most deserving areas to mitigate the drought that has taken a toll in our county as we set up long lasting irrigation measures that will solve this problem once and for all,” he said. The governor also cautioned middle men taking advantage of the lack of market for the farm produce to exploit farmers saying that their time has come to an end and it is now the era of the farmers to earn from their hard work. The governor criticised the previous regime, accusing it of neglecting, ignoring and side-lining farmers, leading to poor yields and massive losses in the agricultural sector. “My government is keenly working to turn this unfortunate trend around,” the governor said. GAPS IN AGRICULTURE He said his engagement with the farmers’ representatives had pointed out serious gaps in the agricultural sector, with irrigation schemes in Bura and Hola having been the most affected. However, Mr Godhana said together with the farmer’s representatives, they will come up with a mechanism that will restore the scheme’s lost glory. He encouraged the farmers to venture into producing food crops as well as cash crops to sustain their families and sell off the surplus to cater for themselves and grow the county’s economy. A week ago, the governor promised to waive irrigation bills for the farmers as well as supply them with seeds and fertilizer at the beginning of the next planting season.  