Security officers on Saturday raided a Chinese residence in Malindi, Kilifi County, following complaints of odour and noise coming from his house. The team was drawn from the immigration, public health, Directorate of Criminal Investigation (DCI), regular and administrative police. RAID Deputy County Commissioner Karung’o Kamau said they wanted to know why Mr Ruming Zhang was operating a factory in a residential area. Mr Kamau said neighbours complained that they suspect the Chinese was operating a fish processing plant in his home that was emitting an odour. They also complained of noisy generators. The factory, which exports fish, lobster and crabs to China and Europe, is located in residential apartments at Casuarina. It also sells other fish in Nairobi. Speaking to journalists after the raid, Mr Kamau said they have asked Mr Zhang to comply with public health regulations to avoid conflict with his neighbours. “We called the owner of the facility to come and he produced all permits, licences and other supporting documents allowing him to operate the business in the home,” he said. It later emerged that public health officials had last year directed the Chinese to set up a generator room to reduce noise pollution. He was also ordered to ensure no water flowed from the house, especially water that smells of fish. PERMITS Earlier, the security team could not communicate with the Chinese, as he could not speak English or Kiswahili. Mr Zhang, through his lawyer Walter Mayaka, said he complied with the law to operate Helida International Trading Limited – a fish processing firm. Mr Mayaka said his client had already set up a generator room to reduce noise, and plans were underway to remove a container outside the gate that was blocking the road. “The company owner is also going to comply with regulations set by the authorities so as to carry out his business effectively and live in harmony with neighbours,” he said. “They will also wash fish inside the house to avoid odour.” COMPLAINTS However, his neighbours questioned why authorities, including the National Environment Management Authority (Nema), allowed him to operate the business in the residential area. They said they want it relocated. Ms Naomi Kimani, who owns the apartments bordering the Chinese home, said her tenants, most of whom are Italian investors, were unable to sleep due to the noise. “My tenants call me every day complaining about the Chinese. We want the factory to be relocated away from the residential area because the current site is not convenient for such business,’’ she added. Ms Kimani said the odour and noise is running her business as some tenants were planning to relocate to better residential areas. Mr Fernando Visti, a real estate investor neighbouring the Chinese factory, said they have security concerns due to movements throughout the night. “The arrival of fishermen, vehicles, boda boda and tuk tuk operators in the residential during the wee hours of the night will compromise security in the area,” he added.  