Kenya’s Sneha Kotecha on Wednesday advanced to the semi-finals of the ITF East African Under 18 Junior Circuit at the Nairobi Club. Compatriot Albert Njogu also fought hard to edge out seventh seed Aman Patel of India 6-4, 4-6, 6-2 in their boys’ round of 16 singles clash to storm into the quarter-finals at the Nairobi Club. It was however the end of the road for Kenya’s Ryan Randiek as he crashed out following a 6-2, 6-1 loss to Indian fourth seed Rithvik Choudry Bollipalli in their round of 16 clash. Sneha Kotecha was in impressive form also, booking her slot in the last four after overcoming Russia’s Ksenia Shikanova 6-4, 6-3 to ensure the hosts have two players in today’s next round of matches. An elated Sneha, who is seeded second in the event, believes she is yet to hit top gear as she seeks her maiden under 18 title. “I was able to reduce the number of errors especially in the second set and this allowed me to focus on working on my returns which have not been that good," Sneha said. “I believe there is still some good tennis to be played this week and I hope I can be in the final.” COMPOSED Sneha’s composed game on the court allowed her to race to a 3-0 lead in the opening set as the Russian struggled with her serve hitting a number of double faults. The Kenyan took the opening set after 33 minutes, hitting seven aces in the process. Shikanova tried to rally in the second set but Sneha checked her comeback with some fine serves to take the contest after 68 minutes. While Sneha had a largely comfortable morning, Njogu had to wade off a strong onslaught from his opponent to confirm his place in the last eight. He edged the first set courtesy of some brilliant rallies and also managed to save six match points. However, Patel would level the contest after Njogu blew away a 4-2 lead to allow the Indian to take the match to a deciding set. It was Kenyan who had the last laugh as he came out guns blazing to blow away his opponent in the final set. “I got a little bit complacent in the second set and allowed him to take it but I corrected the mistakes in the final set,” Njogu said.  