Despite scoring 400 marks in the 2017 KCPE examination, James Mwenda is staring at a bleak future as his father is unable to afford his secondary school fees. Mwenda, who is from Mitheru Village in Tharaka-Nithi County, went to school at Chuka DEB Primary School and was invited to join Meru School. SALARY But his father Justus Njeru, an employee of Tharaka-Nithi County, said he was not able to raise the Sh53,584 fees. He claimed he has not been paid for the last six months. Mr Njeru said has worked at Mitheru Cereals Stores in Maara Sub-County as guard since 2015. “I work here day and night as a watchman but I am not able to pay school fees for my son joining Form One because I have not been paid since July last year,” he said. PAYROLL Mr Njeru said he went to the county human resource offices to know why he was not receiving his pay and was told that his name was erroneously omitted from the payroll but the issue was being rectified. Six months later, it has still not been solved. Mr Njeru added that two weeks ago, he went to the office of Deputy Governor Nyamu Kagwima, who, he said, promised that county would write a letter requesting the Meru School principal to admit the boy as his salary issues were sorted. This was yet to be done, he said. “Whenever I call to know the progress, I am told that the letter was yet to be stamped for authentication and that I should remain patient,” said Mr Njeru. The desperate parent said he is paying fees for another son in college and two others in secondary school and has no other source of money. He appealed to Governor Muthomi Njuki to have mercy on his son and ensure he receives his salary arrears. EXCELLED The 15-year-old Mwenda promises to work hard in school and said he would like to study medicine in future. “I still have hope that the county government will hear my plea and pay my father so that I can report [to school] before lessons start,” said Mwenda. He said he faced many challenges in primary school, such as walking five kilometres to and from school every day, but he still excelled. The boy added that he could not imagine his efforts going to waste if he does not join secondary school. BURSARY When contacted by the Nation, Mr Kagwima said the county was yet to write the letter because it is waiting for members of county assembly to resume sittings and pass a bill to allocate Sh18 million for bursaries. “We are waiting for members of the county assembly to resume sittings on February 7, so that they can pass a bill to allow us use the money,” said the deputy governor. Mr Kagwima promised to follow up on Mr Njeru’s salary issue, and ensure he is paid if it is established that his name was erroneously omitted from the payroll.   Part of the money will be used to buy books.