National Super Alliance (Nasa) on Friday declared its principal Raila Odinga and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka won the August 8 presidential election. The coalition said the results are based on compiled authentic results of the August 8 elections but which were not used by the electoral commission in announcing President Uhuru Kenyatta the winner. According to Nasa, Mr Raila Odinga and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka won the elections after garnering 8.1million votes against President Kenyatta’s 7.8 million votes. Nasa has vowed that it will go on with the planned oath ceremony of Mr Odinga and his co-principal Mr Musyoka on Tuesday next week, a ceremony the Jubilee government has termed as illegal and treasonable. VOTES Mr Odinga won in 26 of the 47 counties, including the votes from prisons and the diaspora while Mr Kenyatta received a majority of votes in 21 counties, the document showed. Siaya Senator and Nasa lead lawyer James Orengo said the results had vindicated the opposition’s stand on the swearing in of Mr Odinga as president. He said the position was backed by the Constitution which gives Kenyans the right to exercise their sovereign power directly. “If anyone had doubts on why Raila Odinga should be sworn in as president, this document has the answers,” said Mr Orengo who was the main speaker in the event attended by Mr Odinga, Mr Musyoka and Mr Moses Mudavadi alongside other Nasa leaders. “The results contained in this document are authentic, unpolluted and unadulterated. It gives details of the Kiems kits and their numbers as well as the polling stations,” he added. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) declared President Kenyatta winner in the August polls with 8,203,290 votes against Mr Odinga’s 6,762,224. COALITION The Nasa document, premised its arguments on what the coalition said was a collation of data of Form 34As of all the polling stations around the country and figured entered into the Kiems kits. The swearing in ceremony is part of Nasa’s strategy to resist the election of Mr Kenyatta after the coalition launched a boycott of products of companies it said were beneficiaries of the Jubilee government. Asked if the invalidation of the August elections by the Supreme Court judges over what they termed as illegalities and irregularities committed by IEBC, Nasa argued that the apex court had in its judgment, only sought to determine the validity of the polls, not its winner. Chief Justice David Maraga in the ruling backed by four judges, said the IEBC “failed, neglected or refused to conduct the presidential election in a manner consistent with the dictates of the constitution.” Mr Orengo said the August 8 elections was only questionable in the fact that IEBC alongside Jubilee falsified the results. “On August 8, more than 80 per cent of Kenyans voted a figure which gave the elections a legitimacy compared to October 26 where a mere 20 per cent voted,” he said.  