Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata has vowed to oppose the national government’s plan to put up a landfill in the county to serve Nairobi. Mr Kang’ata said he will file a petition in the Senate to oppose the project, saying it will have a negative impact on Mitumbiri area of Maragua Constituency. The project, which is under the Ministry of Infrastructure, Department of Urban Housing, is being spearheaded by Nairobi Metropolitan Service Improvement Programme (Namsip). SENATELocals have opposed the project, saying private companies want to turn Murang’a into a dumping site. They add that public participation was not sought. The senator, who is also the Senate Deputy Chief Whip, said that Murang’a produces water for Nairobi County and garbage should not be dumped there. “I will not allow this; the people of Murang’a must be respected. "We have been taken for a ride for a long time. Once the Senate resumes in February, I will table a petition to oppose the project,” he said. CRITICISMSpeaking at Kandara where he attended a thanksgiving ceremony, Mr Kang’ata urged local leaders to join him in opposing the project. Social media users have also vowed to use all means to block the project, saying they will not allow “greedy people with selfish interests” to take Nairobi sewerage to Murang’a. “The project has been opposed by four counties. Why did Murang’a give it a clean bill of health?” a social media user identified as Ali Buke wrote on his Facebook page. LANDFILLCounty government officials said they were not aware of the project. The Executive Member for Health, Mr Joseph Mbai, said little is known about the plan. But Mr Peter Miriti Bundi, the official in charge of the project, said a landfill is not a dumpsite. He said a landfill will take only solid waste as opposed to a dumpsite where all forms of waste are dumped. AWARENESSHe said they are conducting environmental social impact assessment (ESIA) and holding meetings with the county leadership and residents to enlighten them on the project. He denied claims by locals that after burying non-biodegradable matter, waste water may seep into boreholes and adversely affect people’s health. “The landfill’s waste storage cells will be lined up with impermeable synthetic, which will prevent waste water from seeping into the ground,” he said.  