Kampala Capital City Authority (KCCA) coach Mike Mutebi believes his team’s week-long tour of Kenya will offer his charges adequate preparations ahead of a successive assault in the African Champions League this year. The 12-time Ugandan champions, who have been drawn against Malagasy side CNaPs in the preliminaries of the continental competition, are expected in the country Friday afternoon and have lined up four high profile friendlies as part of their mid-season schedule. First, the Ugandan tourists will play Kenyan champions Gor Mahia at the Afraha stadium in Nakuru on Saturday. This will be followed by another big clash against former champions Tusker in Ruaraka, Nairobi two days later. The Ugandans will then shift base to Machakos, and tackle AFC Leopards on Wednesday, before winding up their Kenyan trip with an outing against Sofapaka at Narok Stadium on January 26. Gor and Leopards will also be using the friendlies to prepare for the start of the 2018 Kenya Premier League campaign and continental football. The KPL begins on February 3 while continental action starts on the weekend of February 8-10. Gor Mahia will welcome Equatorial Guinea side Leones Vegetarinos at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos in the Champions League preliminary round first leg whilst Leopards will play Malagasy side FOSA Juniors in the Confed Cup preliminary at the same venue. “We have assembled a very good side considering the resources at our disposal,” Leopards team manager Gilbert Selebwa explained. “We want to try and put to test the things we have been working out in training over the past few weeks in the friendlies against Thika United on Saturday and KCCA.” Leopards coach will parade his newcomers namely the two Ezekiels in the frame of Odera and Otuoma, alongside midfielder Collins “Gattuso” Okoth, plus Ghanaian import Eric Kwabena Bekoe. Gor fans too, will be keen to have a glimpse of their new players. The champions have recruited among other the mercurial Humphrey Mieno from Tusker, Charles Momanyi from Kakamega Homeboyz plus Ivorian international Ephrem Guikhan, famed for scoring the three goals that eliminated Tusker from the Caf Africa Champions League last year. That was during his stint at Mauritius club AS Port Louis. “We have made some signings in mid-season and I want these players to get used to travelling and competing against foreign teams,” Mutebi told Nation Sport. “We also want to reflect on our performance in the first half of our season and strategise on how we can make it to the group stage of the Champions League this year.” KCCA will be without their dependable players namely Benjamin Ochan, Isaac Mulume, Sadaam Juma and star striker Derrick Nsibambi, all of whom are currently part of the Uganda national team competing at the ongoing Africa Nations Championship in Morocco. Meanwhile, Mutebi who’s previously managed SC Villa in his home country, has made six signings namely Musana Hassan, Matsiko Abubakari, Okwalinga Solomon, Ikara Thomas, Achai Herbert and Sserwadda Steven, all of whom have been included in the Kenyan tour. Besides winning the league and domestic cup last year, KCCA also enjoyed a successful stint on the continental front. SCHEDULE Saturday, January 20 - Gor Mahia v KCCA (Afraha Stadium - Nakuru) Monday, January 22 - Tusker v KCCA (Ruaraka grounds - Nairobi) Wednesday, January 24 - AFC Leopards v KCCA (Kenyatta Stadium - Machakos) Friday, January 26 - Sofapaka v KCCA (Narok Stadium)   The 13-time Kenyan champions are hoping for a better show in continental football.