The opposition National Super Alliance (Nasa) has maintained it would continue with its plans to swear in leaders Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka at Uhuru Park, Nairobi, on Tuesday. In a live interview on KTN News on Monday morning, Nasa CEO Norman Magaya said all their supporters were expected to be seated at the historic ground by 8.30am in an event that is expected to end at exactly 1pm. NO PERMIT He dismissed warnings from Nairobi County police boss Japheth Koome that the Opposition should keep off the venue. Mr Koome said any meeting scheduled for Tuesday at Uhuru Park would be illegal as no one has given the police notice of any political event at the grounds. “Mr Koome is really struggling to look for reasons to stop us from using the venue. Police are supposed to be apolitical and serve all Kenyans equally but Mr Koome has turned out to be pandering on the whims of Jubilee,” Mr Magaya said. “We have no option whatsoever to change the venue, the event will be largely peaceful and we urge our supporters to turn up with white handkerchiefs as a sign of peace.” Mr Magaya said the coalition is sure that no other group was scheduled to use the park as claimed by authorities. He also dismissed claims by the Nairobi County Government that the facility was being renovated. OATH On the legality of the oath taking, Mr Magaya said everything would be done according to the Constitution. “We have a qualified judge that who undertake the process,” he said. The Nasa CEO urged police to deploy at least 500,000 police officers for the event, saying their supporters would turn up in large numbers and they needed protection. He said some supporters from other counties have already arrived in the city, while others are expected in the course of the day. “Our supporters from the counties are well-organised; they have their team leaders who will coordinate all their activities while in Nairobi,” Mr Magaya said. INTERVENTION Deputy President William Ruto has urged the public to stay away from the Nasa event, saying Kenyans had decided on their leaders in August and the focus should now be on development. Envoys and other political leaders have also urged the Opposition to cancel its oath plans. But the Opposition has said the ceremony is “unstoppable and will go on as scheduled”. Last Thursday, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko said no group would be allowed access to Uhuru Park until the ongoing renovations at the facility are complete. City Hall said three other groups had also booked the venue for use on Tuesday, but none would be allowed to use it.   Mr Mbadi said the security agencies have no legal basis to interfere with the event.