University of Nairobi has been ranked the seventh best institution in Africa with University of Cape Town emerging top. Webometrics world university ranking released this month indicate that universities from South Africa took the best five positions while Cairo University of Egypt was ranked sixth. The University of Nairobi emerged position 874 in the world and was position four globally in presence, one of the ranking indicators. Webometrics world university ranking is a ranking system for the world's universities whose rankings are derived from a combined indicator that takes into account parameters such as; web presence, visibility, transparency (openness) and (Scholar) excellence. It provides web indicators for more than 12,000 universities worldwide. ATTRACT STUDENTS Universities have been embracing ranking as they move to attract international learners due to the shrinking populations of students from the country who are joining the institutions. The Commission for University Education (CUE) which regulates higher education in the country has been on record asking universities to improve their quality of education in order to attract more students. According to data from Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Service (KUCCPS), four universities admitted the best 141 candidates in 2016 KCSE exams. ADMISSIONS University of Nairobi admitted 102 while Kenyatta, Moi, JKUAT admitted the rest. A report released by the British Council in 2016 revealed that graduates from public universities were more preferred by employers. Leading the pack was the University of Nairobi, followed by Kenyatta and Moi. University rankings reinforce a culture of transparency and enhances constructive competition between universities in the contribution of research that makes advances across and within various disciplines. At a more individual level, the ranking raises the profiles of researchers from a well-ranked university both locally and internationally and improves their reputation.  