Today the 14th day of January is a fun filled Sunday as our skies go colourful with an amazing display of kites. This display will be the highlight of a family fun day to be held at the CID Training Grounds commencing at 8.00 am. The organisers of the event Patel Youth and Sikh Youth have announced that there will be numerous fun activities besides the Kite flying festivity. Activities this fun day are directed towards adventurous youth, couples and parents in constant search for participating in an activity as a family or a group. The organisers assert that it will be a unique event. There will be plenty to eat drink and make merry. The happy family fiesta coincides with the Basant celebration of Punjab and the Gujarati Uttarayan both seasonal observances marking the beginning of spring and harvest time in South East Asia. It is also a time to  offer thanks giving to Sun God Surya. The symbolism is additionally celebrating the so called awakening of the universe after the winter slumber. Historically the kite flying tradition in India is said to have started by the kings and Nawabs who found the sport entertaining and a relaxing way to display skill and power. Flying kites these days is certainly a leisure activity. In days gone by, I read. Kites were deployed for a variety of purposes like giving signals, testing the force and direction of wind. In our Capital city Nairobi kite flying as a sport and leisure activity has had its fair share of exposition mainly amongst our youth. Over the years at festival Melas held at various sports clubs and mainly at the Premier and Sikh union clubs, residents and kite flying enthusiasts have witnessed some very interesting kite flying activities. An International Kite Festival was held at the Nairobi Polo Club a couple of years ago. Make the best of today’s offer of leisure and fun fiesta by Patel Youth and Sikh Youth. You do not have to bring your own as kites are available at the venue. Best wishes for a happy and enjoyable Basant and Uttarayan.   For pictures, visit the arts and culture section on www.nation.co.ke    Email: qureshi@simbatech.biz 
  
Glittering celebration of Bollywood’s silver screen achievements held in Mumbai 