President Uhuru Kenyatta should let Nasa proceed with the planned swearing-in of Nasa leaders Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka to avoid ugly confrontation with opposition supporters, Cotu boss Francis Atwoli has said. "We don't want the country to deteriorate into chaos because of confrontations between opposition supporters and security personnel deployed to stop the swearing-in of Mr Odinga and Mr Musyoka," he said on Sunday. Mr Atwoli had earlier opposed the planned oath taking and instead lobbied for dialogue. DIALOGUE The Cotu boss said he had unsuccessfully pleaded with President Kenyatta to engage the opposition in dialogue to avoid unnecessary confrontations that could plunge the country into chaos. “Since President Kenyatta does not want to meet the opposition for dialogue, he should not send the police to Uhuru Park to stop the swearing-in ceremony. He should let Nasa proceed with swearing in and then look at what (happens) next. That way, we will have peace,” he said. Mr Atwoli, who spoke at the burial of his relative Gideon Andenga in Khwisero Constituency, Kakamega County, said any attempt by security officers to violently to stop the swearing-in ceremony would ignite violence and bloodshed. “We do not want to go that route again. If President Kenyatta does not want to meet the opposition, let him allow the swearing-in proceed. That will create peace in our country,’’ said Mr Atwoli. VIOLENCE He said the outbreak of violence would further derail efforts to get the country’s economy back on track and create employment opportunities. “We want an economy that can create employment for our men and women. And we can only do that… if we have some mechanism in place to stabilise our politics and spur economic growth that will absorb everyone,” said the trade unionist. Mr Atwoli said after the August 8, 2017 polls, President Kenyatta had asked him to tell the opposition to go court and challenge the outcome of the election if they were dissatisfied with the results. “That is exactly what I did and Nasa listened to me and challenged the election results at the Supreme Court. “I have been pleading with President Kenyatta to talk to the opposition after they boycotted the repeat presidential election on October 26, 2017 and announced they were planning the swearing-in ceremony, but he is not interested,” said Mr Atwoli. OATH Nasa has maintained that the Tuesday swearing-in will go on as planned. The coalition has said it won the August 8, 2017 election and does not recognise President Uhuru Kenyatta’s win. On Saturday during a function in Homa Bay County, Nasa leaders said they are prepared for the Tuesday swearing-in. Mr Odinga said some ambassadors had asked him to cancel the plans to avoid international sanctions. But he dismissed them and said he was fighting for electoral justice. Envoys and other leaders in Kenya have asked Mr Odinga to cancel the oath plans. GENDER EQUITY The Cotu boss also urged the President to nominate more women in his Cabinet for gender equity. He asked President Kenyatta to reserve other Cabinet posts for women. Mr Atwoli also asked Parliament to vet the Cabinet nominees quickly so they can soon start work. He said Cotu was happy with the list of Cabinet Secretaries and would support them in their work.   Kenyans already chose their leaders, he says.