Kenya Shujaa launch their Australia Sevens campaign against Argentina at 11.06am on Friday as the third leg of the World Sevens Series gets underway at Allianz Stadium, Sydney. Shujaa will then take on France at 7.25am on Saturday before wrapping up their Pool “B” assignments against 2009 World champion Wales at 11.36am on the same day. Team manager Erick Ogweno disclosed that morale was high at the team’s camp adding that the players were determined to put up a good show to showcase their potential to sponsors. WITHDREW SportPesa withdrew the sponsorship after the government raised tax on betting company’s profits to 35 per cent. Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) held talks with the players before departure to Australia on Saturday after chairman Richard Omwela indicated that they will terminate their contracts following SportPesa’s move. “All is well and I think the players now appreciate their role in marketing the team shirt to other potential sponsors via a good performance,” said Ogweno. “It’s good to have former captain Andrew Amonde back from injury and that should improve our ball carrying and attack.” Nakuru flanker Oscar Ouma will captain Kenya Seven’s Shujaa for the first for Sydney and Hamilton Sevens legs. Ouma replaces Homeboyz centre Oscar Ayodi, who is nursing a knee injury. STANDOUT PLAYERS Ayodi captained the team for the first time in the opening legs, Dubai and Cape Town. Erick Ombasa, one of the standout players for the Menengai Oilers during their impressive 2017 National Sevens Circuit campaign, is in line to make his World Sevens debut. Samuel “Smurf” Ng’ethe and Arthur Owira who debuted in Cape Town retained their places in the team that will miss the services of injured Collins Injera. Shujaa edged out regional rivals Uganda Cranes 24-14 to collected three points and finish in a poor 13th place at Cape Town Sevens. That performance came at the back of a seventh placed finish in Dubai. FIXTURES Friday: Kenya v Argentina (11.06am) Saturday: Kenya v France (7.25am), Kenya v Wales (11.36am). Pool A: New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa, Russia Pool B: Argentina, France, Wales, Kenya Pool C: South Africa, England, Spain, Papua New Guinea Pool D: Canada, USA, Australia, Scotland   The team will be led by Nakuru RFC’s Oscar Ouma.