Students joining Form One have until Wednesday to report to school after the Education ministry extended the deadline. Education Principal Secretary Belio Kipsang said Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i authorised the extension last Friday. The decision was informed by the overwhelming turnout of students in some regions and slow reporting in others, especially at the Coast. The new dates have affected replacements for those who fail to take up their positions, which was scheduled for January 17 and will now be done on January 19. “Those selected during the replacement exercise will be expected to report by January 23, 2018,” said Dr Kipsang. The first group of students reported to their respective schools last week and Dr Matiang’i raised concern over low uptake of slots at the Coast. Speaking in Nairobi, he cited Kwale County where only 754 students had reported by Friday against 5,568 available vacancies. LACK OF FEES Parents at the Coast attributed the delay to lack of school fees and poverty. Others blamed school heads for withholding admission letters and demanding bribes before they can admit students. “My son sat the exams at Mpirani Primary School but efforts to get the calling letter have been a game of hide and seek. Also, I cannot afford the school fees,” said Mr Mohammed Said, a parent whose son scored 305 marks. Kwale High School principal Festus Sombo said most of the students had been affected by the night travel ban. “Parents thought education was going to be free only to report to school and be sent away due to lack of school fees. Dr Matiang’i, probe these schools,” said Mr Aloo. In Kilifi, Governor Amason Kingi said he was concerned about the low education standards in the county. He said he will be meeting Dr Matiang’i over the matter, adding that the transition rate from primary to secondary school was worrying. PRESTIGIOUS SCHOOLS In the Rift Valley, scores of students admitted to prestigious schools have also not reported. Victoria Chepkemoi, who sat her KCPE examination at Ngata Primary School and scored 402 marks, is one of the students yet to join Chogoria Girls due to lack of funds. However, Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association chairman Kahi Indimuli said he was yet to receive complaints from headteachers about low turnout. He said schools in Nairobi had recorded a high number of students who reported last week. A spot check at Kwale Boys High School showed that by 2 pm last Friday, only 130 students out of 240 had been admitted. At Matuga Girls High School, only 121 out 225 expected students had been admitted to the school. Kwale High School principal Mr Festus Sombo said the most of the students had been affected by the night travel ban. Some parents, he added, have communicated that they were still looking for tuition fees. Kwale County director of Education Bridget Wambua urged the parents to take their children to school. “Take advantage of the extension and bring the children to school. We may not know why they have not reported,” Mr Wambua said. But sources told Nation that the trend is common in Kwale. FIRST SELECTION “It is an attitude, children do not report to school during the first selection. They are waiting until second selection who will not have reported to school and take up their positions. We have two national schools,” said the source. The source added, “Kwale High school and Matuga girls are the only national schools so most students selected to the two schools do not join them due to a belief that coast standards are low. So the parents scramble for the two schools. So they wait when the positions are vacant and enrol their children to the national schools. But the Kenya National Union of Teachers executive member Dan Aloo blamed the government for promising free secondary education. “Parents thought education was going to be free only to report to school and sent away due to lack of school fees. Dr Matiang’i probe these schools. Many children are at home due to the predicament,” said Mr Aloo. HIGH NUMBER “We are giving the parents and guardians up to January 18, to make sure that their children report to school,” she said. Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association (Kessha) chairman Kahi Indimuli however said he is yet to receive complaints from school heads complaining of low turnout. He said schools in Nairobi have recorded a high number of form one students who reported last week. “I am yet to receive complaints from principals and so I may not report on that,” said Mr Indimuli. In Kilifi, Governor Amason Kingi said he was concerned by the low education standards in the county. He will be meeting CS Matiang’i over the matter. “I have talked to Dr Matiang’i and together with other education stakeholders we are going to discuss on issues leading to poor performance, many candidates have been locked out of secondary schools due to poor performance,’’ he said. Reported by Faith Nyamai, Kennedy Kimanthi, Francis Mureithi, Eric Matara, Linet Amuli, Fadhili Fredrick, Winnie Atieno, Mwangi Ndirangu and Mohamed Ahmed   After Nation reported their plight, many Kenyans responded with help