Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka has said that the Senate will prioritise amendments to the County Governments Act that will allow governors to pick their deputies whenever a vacancy occurs. Mr Lusaka on Wednesday decried the existing legislative gaps which he said have made it difficult to fill the positions whenever they arise. He said the legal gap will be fixed once Senators resume sittings on February 13 after a long Christmas recess. PROPOSAL “Such loopholes have made the county governments to function with a lot of difficulties. But now that we have committees in place and a legislative proposal, this matter will be dealt with,” Mr Lusaka said after meeting with the visiting Kenyan born- Australian Senator Ms Lucy Gichuhi at Parliament buildings. The County Governments Amendment Bill (2017) sponsored by Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, who is also the House leader of majority, proposes that a governor makes the appointment within 14 days of the office becoming vacant. However, this must be done with the approval of the county assemblies and defines the vacancy as that caused by death, resignation or imprisonment of the sitting deputy governor as well as where the deputy governor takes over the governor’s office. The need to pass the bill comes after the resignation of Nairobi Deputy Governor Polycarp Igathe. In Nyeri County, Mr Mutahi Kahiga took over as the substantive governor following the death of his boss, the late Wahome Gakuru. IGATHE In a similar case as Governor Sonko, Governor Kahiga is also serving without a deputy governor but the issue could be resolved if the Senators pass the bill. The constitution presupposes that in the event a governor dies in office, his deputy takes over as governor for the remainder of the term but just like the County Governments Act, it is silent on whether the successor should appoint a deputy governor. Ms Gichuhi, who outlined the importance of Senate in the country’s governance structure as defender of devolution and the constitution, challenged Senators to pass laws for the interest of the counties and the country. On the current political situation facing the country, she urged President Uhuru Kenyatta and National Super Alliance leader Raila Odinga to hold a national dialogue. MCAS “The two leaders need to come together and talk because this is a homegrown issue that must be addressed by Kenyans. This is a political common sense issue and Kenyans must also give their leaders time to work and deliver,” Ms Gichuhi of South Australia. Meanwhile, Mr Lusaka has warned Members of the County Assemblies against behaving in a manner that brings disrepute and dishonor in their office. This comes after Murang’a MCAs exchanged blows on Tuesday for the third time over County Assembly majority party leadership row. Mr Lusaka promised that the Senate will expedite investigations into the matter.  