A nursing student accused of defiling a patient rushed for emergency treatment at Kapkatet Sub-County Hospital has been remanded for 10 days by a Kericho court. The accused, a senior student at Kapkatet Kenya Medical Training College (KMTC), was charged with defilement before Senior Resident Magistrate Stephen Ngetich. The victim, aged 16, is a Form Two student at a local girls’ school. She had been rushed to the hospital after falling ill in school. According to the prosecution, the accused committed the offence on January 27, 2018. However, he denied the charge. REMANDED He was released on a Sh200,000 bond and a surety of the same amount, which he could not immediately raise, prompting the court to remand him at Kericho Medium Prison. He will remain in prison until February 9 when he will appear in court for the mention of the case. The victim’s mother, who is one of the witnesses, had earlier (outside the court) recounted the events saying that she had rushed her daughter to the hospital for emergency treatment after falling ill in school. “I was called by the school deputy principal informing me that my daughter was unwell. I picked her and took her to Kapkatet Hospital for further treatment,” the distraught mother said. Having arrived at the hospital after 5pm, she said she waited outside as the girl was attended to by a male “doctor” whom she later learnt was a 25-year-old student nurse at KMTC. WEEPING “But when my child emerged minutes later from one of the corridors, she was weeping. She then whispered to me that the doctor had raped her during the examination,” said the parent. She had immediately confronted the “doctor” who denied committing the offence. Kericho County Police Commander James Mugera confirmed the report saying that the rape test from the hospital came out positive. Speaking to Daily Nation,   Kapkatet KMTC Administrative Officer David Rotich said he was informed about the incident on Sunday night and in the morning he followed up on the student’s whereabouts and found him hiding in Litein Town. Mr Rotich said they reported the incident to Litein Police Station adding that the culprit remained at the station as police conducted investigations. “I am not privy to the results of the rape test conducted on the girl but the report was handed to the police by the hospital,” said Mr Rotich by phone. He said the accused was one of their brightest students and did not have any history of indiscipline.  