If you asked an average Kenyan to list the jobs that they consider the most hazardous, few would mention the school principal’s. For many, a school principal is associated with authority, influence and success. The image of a man or woman seated behind a large desk, with rows of glittering trophies and medallions adorning the background, makes the job among the most coveted. But the glamour sometimes belies the tumult that characterises the life of the office bearer. Over the past few weeks, we have witnessed principals — respected men and women who have given their sweat and blood for this country — humiliated by being locked out of their offices by irate mobs who felt they were not fit to serve in their schools. Never mind that some of them had to make sacrifices to report to their new station. AGGRESSORS Sadly, it did not matter to the aggressors that, by their violent acts, they were vicariously teaching their children unorthodox conflict resolution methods that the minors might feel justified using against them when the need arises. And that could be the tip of a gigantic iceberg in the vast waters of high school administration. In May 2016, the then-chairman of the Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association, Mr John Awiti, reported that Kenya was losing about 23 secondary school principals every year to stress-related complications. The association had lost 14 in the first five months of that year. So, yes, the most hazardous job may not necessarily be that of our peacekeeping soldier in Somalia, who is aware that the enemy lurks in the shadows and is, therefore, cautious. But for the principal, the enemy lies within and could insidiously gnaw on his or her being until he or she drops dead — literally! NEW ROLES For many, this ‘death’ begins soon after their appointment. Few principals are prepared for their new roles. It is largely assumed that serving as deputy principals was some kind of apprenticeship and they should, therefore, seamlessly transition into school heads when their turn comes. They soon realise that the job hinges on the goodwill of many stakeholders. If one of the parties does not accept the principal, he or she begins to die. We have witnessed disturbing images of principals in full flight with hordes of parents in hot pursuit baying for their blood on account of “poor exam results”. Since the purpose of such shenanigans is hardly to inflict physical harm, the principal will easily outrun the mob — but not the embarrassment, disappointment, trauma and anguish visited upon them. From experience, I know that the period around the release of national examination results is the most stressful for most principals. The simple thought that we preside over an exam that will determine the future of scores of children under our care is bad enough. And the anxiety can turn toxic, especially in the face of massive failure such as that witnessed in last year’s KCSE exam results. POOR EXAM RESULTS While most managers’ jobs are fairly straightforward and require mastery of one or two competence areas, the principal’s role is like that of the parent of a large family that looks upon them for leadership and psychological and physical security. Without proper preparation and support, the principal runs the risk of becoming a jack of all trades. To carry out these duties competently, they have to delegate. However, loyal and trustworthy people are not easy to come by, often turning the principal to a ‘fire-fighter’ of sorts — a sure source of stress. With the right support, however, the principal’s job can be both fulfilling and rewarding. Instead of locking out principals whom we consider unsuitable, let’s ask ourselves what institutional structures and systems we have helped to put in place to sustain our schools for generations regardless of who is at the helm. This way, it will not matter who the principal is. If he or she is not good enough, the system will, naturally, weed him or her out. Mr Muthiora is the principal, Strathmore School. johnmuthiora12@gmail.com.   For many, a school principal is associated with authority, influence and success.