The authorities have finally come out to admit that the level of insecurity in Nairobi is getting out of hand and consequently undertaken to take quick and drastic action to rein in the gangsters. Nairobi is not only the political and business capital of Kenya; it is a regional hub that hosts numerous international agencies, including United Nations headquarters. It is the seat of trade and international humanitarian operations. In recent years, the city has played host to major international conferences and attracted high-profile visits by leading global figures. ECONOMY Such events bring in huge numbers of visitors and raise the profile of our city and country with positive spinoffs to the economy. Insecurity in the city is, therefore, a major drawback that is likely to wipe the gains made in promoting the country as a preferred travel destination. It is a threat to the wellbeing of businesses and citizens. Security agencies are pretty aware about the numerous gangs but have seemingly been lax in dealing with them. This is not the first outcry over the city’s insecurity; it has happened in the past but was tamed through a well-thought out campaign and resolute actions by the authorities. It can still be done. Rising levels of insecurity is a consequence of many factors. Nairobi, for example, has witnessed resurgence of street families that thrive on mugging. RIDERS Hawkers have occupied the city, including its central business district, creating proper opportunities for thugs to run roughshod over residents. Public service vehicles and motorcycle riders have equally taken over most parts of the city, precipitating chaos that give room for thugs to thrive. Despite all this, the police, the Nairobi City County government and provincial administration seem helpless. It is perfect dereliction of duty and is not acceptable. We note, however, that the problem is not confined to Nairobi as other towns have also allowed the chaotic scenes that compromise security. The authorities must move quickly and end this lawlessness. We cannot allow gangsters to take control of our cities and watch as thriving businesses grind to a standstill.  