Golf Park’s Tony Omuli grabbed a three-shot lead as the “Road to the 2018 Barclays Kenya Open” campaign got underway at the par-71 Muthaiga Golf Club course on Monday. Omuli, who has been enjoying an excellent form lately, fired two under par 69 to set the ball rolling as 31 professionals converged at Muthaiga in round one of the first tournament of a possible five which will determine Kenya’s participation in this year’s Open. Omuli birdied a couple of holes in the round which saw former resident pro at Muthaiga, Anil Shah, closed the day in second place on one over par 72, a shot better than David Wakhu, Frank Matilo and Nelson Simwa. The second round of the 72-hole event was being played at the time of writing on Tuesday, while the third and fourth rounds are set for Wednesday and Thursday. ALREADY QUALIFIED Four players have already qualified for the Open, namely Dismas Indiza, Simon Ngige and Rizwan Charania — who made cut in last year’s Open — along with Stefan Andersen who has been given a wild card by the Professional Golfers of Kenya (PGK) since he has been playing in the Sunshine Tour in South Africa. Meanwhile, at Nyali Golf and Country Club, Susan Stokes emerged the winner of the Lady Captain’s Prize (Joyce Masai) with 19 differential points, beating Lyn Nicholls by half a point. The nines went to Terry Odoo on 37.5 nett abd Alice Wahome with 18 points. In the men’s section, Frank Herter won with 44 points, one better than Ushwin Kwanna who took the runner up prize. The sponsors were led by Peter Kimanga who posted 39 points while the seniors were led by John Chatwin with 41 points same as junior winner Andrew Wahome. South Africa-based Mathew Wahome hit a massive 340 yards to claim the longest drive contest for the men with Terry Odoo claiming the ladies’ title. COLLATED RESULTS At Thika: Ladies Medal: Silver winner: Mary Wainaina 76nett, S Patel 77, Bronze winner: Agnes Kuria 66, Tabby Mungai 67nett, Silver gross S.M Patel 96 gross, Bronze gross winner: Eunice Mwangi 90 gross, Men winner: Edward Nyamu 67 nett, Nicholas Kabare 69, Gross David Wainaina 78. Guest: Peter Macharia 72 nett, Sponsor’s team winner: Lawrence Nganga 75 nett. At Sigona: January Monthly Mug: Sponsored by Craigs Limited: Overall winner: Palkesh Shah 41 cb Sawan Shah 41, Ronak Malde 38; Lady winner: Rachna Patel 34, Junior: Ali Khimji 38pts. At Nyeri: Club nite: Sponsored by Cytonn Investments: Men winner: Sammy Njayakio 38 cb Fr. Paul Wangai, Lady winner Jane Munyori 34 points. At Royal: Premier League Kick-off Golf Day: Winner: Sammy Itemere 37 pts cb Mary Gatere 37, Dennis Saikwa 36 cb Robert Nyanchoga 36, Senior Winner Dinesh Modi 36, Nines: Chelimo Kibet 20, Joel Kaindi 21, Gross: Dennis Saikwa 72 gross.  