The Caf Confederation Cup preliminary round, first leg clash between AFC Leopards and Fosa Juniors of Madagascar in Kenya has been moved from February 10 to 11. The venue remains the same, Bukhungu Stadium in Kakamega. Leopards secretary Oscar Igaida said the change was made to allow for live television broadcast of the game together with the Caf Champions League fixture between Gor Mahia and Leones Vegetarianos of Equatorial Guinea at Afraha Stadium in Nakuru on February 10. The two fixtures were originally scheduled to take place on the same day. “We want to give the service provider for the television rights for both matches,” said Igaida. “We apologise to our fans and kindly request them to adjust accordingly as this was beyond our control,” he added. While announcing the changes, Igaida said Fosa Juniors will arrive in the country on February 8 at 7am and proceed to Kakamega on the same morning by air to Kisumu and then by road to the county capital. Meanwhile, Ingwe coach Robert Matano is readying his charges for their 2018 Kenyan Premier League opener against Posta Rangers in Nakuru on Saturday while the big cats could also face Sudanese giants Al Hilal in Machakos. Leopards will have a lot of catching up to do in terms of fitness and tactics after the players missed training last week over an industrial dispute. Some players were demanding for unpaid dues dating back to last season. NO MONEY Igaida said the Government has not released any single cent for preparation for their match against Fosa Juniors, adding that the management will meet Thursday to discuss the way forward. Igaida has meanwhile cautioned AFC Supporters Sacco does not have the blessings of the club management due to the fact that the office was not fully involved in the registration of the group. “The purpose of bringing this to your attention is that are not involved in the running of the Sacco and any fan, supporter or members who joins the Sacco should do so at their own risk, putting in mind that AFC Leopards management is not involved,” Igaida said.  