Khwisero MP Christopher Aseka has begun a free school feeding programme for Class Eight pupils in 61 primary schools in the sub-county. The move aims at providing schools in the deprived communities in the constituency with one nutritious meal, prepared from locally grown foodstuffs (maize and beans), every school going day. Speaking at the launch of the programme at Khwisero Sportsground, Mr Aseka said the Sh10 million programme is an effective strategy of ensuring retention of pupils in schools and improving on performance in national exams. The MP asked well-meaning stakeholders to support the programme which has the potential to reduce hunger and malnutrition among the pupils who are to sit their KCPE examinations at the end of the year. ANNUALLY Mr Aseka said plans are underway to ensure the programme is undertaken each year. He said the programme will cover pupils in Class Seven and Eight in 2019 and by 2022 it will cover pupils from Class Four upwards. "I am committed to contributing to the reduction of hunger and malnutrition, improve health status of school children as well as support local farmers by the use of local foodstuffs in order to maintain food security in communities in a more sustainable manner," said Mr Aseka. SCHOLARSHIPS The MP has also facilitated a number of scholarships for 270 students who scored over 300 marks in last year’s KCPE exams and admitted to Mwihila Boys and Emalindi Girls high schools. Of these, 130 girls have been allocated slots at Emalindi Girls while 140 boys are admitted to Mwihila Boys under the CDF scholarship programme. “I have set aside Sh8 million to fund the education of the 270 students in the two identified schools. I have also allocated Sh10 million to pay fees for students in all day schools in the constituency,” Mr Aseka said. He urged the students to study hard to enable them take full advantage of the government's commitment to free education. He reiterated his commitment to providing the infrastructure and logistical support to school to enhance academic performance.  