A Magistrate Court will today rule on whether a Muslim cleric, whose arrest in Marsabit town over the weekend sparked protests, will be detained for a month. Sheikh Guyo Gorsa appeared before Senior Principal Magistrate Martha Mutuku who ordered that he be detained for 30 days following a request by the Anti-Terror Police Unit (ATPU). Through state Counsel Duncan Ondimu, court heard that the suspect was arrested on suspicion that he is involved with recruiting youths to join the Al-Shabab terror group. “ATPU believes that the suspect has other associates who are yet to be apprehended, their arrest is being vigorously pursued by security agencies both within as well as outside the country,” said Mr Ondimu. The court heard that his mobile phone, a flash disk and a 2GB MicroSD card were seized from him and will be subjected to forensic examination. Court was also told that the suspect is alleged to have been in constant communication with a number of well-known terrorists based in Somalia and that two of his recruits are facing terror-related charges. Court was further told that intelligence reports indicate that his associates have been planning attacks within the country therefore police need to do more interviews with him to find out detailed information on the same.“There is credible information and evidence to show that he is involved in recruitment of persons to participate in terrorism activities as well as joining terror groups especially the Al-Shabaab,” said Mr Ondimu. However his lawyer urged the court to have him detained for only two days utmost while arguing that the 30 days period requested is contrary to the provisions of the constitution. The defence lawyer explained that the suspect is a religious leader, counsellor and man entrusted to teach children the word of God. “He is loved by most residents of Marsabit for guidance and order he has brought among youths in the area. He is a stranger to the allegations,” court heard. But the prosecution insisted that despite the love shown by the residents towards him, the issue of concern is what he teaches hence urged the court to consider the matter as a serious one and grant the 30 days detention period.   Churches are heavily guarded and police are on high alert.