The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) wants a petition filed against Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu dismissed.  Mr Albert Gogo Nguma who was the County Returning Officer for Kitui said claims by the petitioner, former Governor Julius Malombe that his agents were ejected out of polling stations and that he did not sign the results were pure lies. Mr Nguma who is the commission’s sole witness in the petition told Lady Justice Pauline Nyamweya that the Kitui gubernatorial seat was contested and won fairly by Mrs Ngilu, the Narc party’s candidate. EJECTED “Claims by the petitioner that some Wiper Party agents were ejected from some polling stations are not true as no such reports were made to me and no candidate or their agents requested for extension of the voting time,” said Mr Nguma. During cross extermination by Mrs Ngilu’s lawyer Kioko Kilukumi, the IEBC official told the court that the elections were conducted in strict conformity to all regulations governing polls. “The evidence provided by the petitioner is a coached lie. Such lies include allegations that his agents were ejected or not allowed to enter in polling stations” he said urging the court to verify the accuracy of the claims and evidence presented. The IEBC official took to the witness stand after Dr Malombe’s chief agent Kitheka Mulatya told the court that Wiper Party agents were allegedly chased outs of polling stations. He said Mr Mulatya cannot disown the county results he signed on behalf of the petitioner before IEBC them and that his signature means that he verified and agreed with the results from polling stations and from their agents. NOT SIGNED Mr Mulatya had earlier told the court that he did not agree with the results but signed the forms to prove to his political party Wiper that he was present at the tallying centre.  Mr Nguma testified that out of the 1454 polling stations in Kitui County, results from only 16 polling stations were not signed by the presiding officers or their deputies, which translated into 1.1 per cent of the county’s entire vote. This, he said, could not affect the final results he announced declaring Mrs Ngilu as the winner of the election. Dr Malombe was a distant third.  Mr Nguma told the court that voting and tallying was done manually, including a manual process of transposition of forms 37A's, 37B's and 37C's. “Eighteen polling stations had errors in forms 37A, 37B and 37C. Out of the said 18 polling stations, only 13 of them were as a result of rejected votes and they were not in favour of any candidate” he said. The official added that all these activities having been done by a human being were prone to errors which could be corrected and this wasn't meant to benefit any of the contesters. Hearing continues. 
 