Coast regional coordinator Nelson Marwa has ordered the arrest of the proprieter of Solvit Security Company, whose guards assaulted a banker leading to his death.Addressing journalists at Uhuru na Kazi boardroom in Mombasa on Friday, Mr Marwa said that the owner should be held accountable for his guards who were involved in the January 7 incident. INVESTIGATION“He has all the details of his guards and he should be arrested immediately. He should write a statement and tell us where those who fled are. He is the employer, he has all the details of where his employees come from. We cannot play musical chairs with him,” said Mr Marwa.He said that the company’s owner has been trying to influence police officers handling the case.“Let those police officers be warned. If you are influenced you will face the wrath. Kenyans are waiting for answers over the death of that innocent Kenyan and we will give them,” added Mr Marwa. To date, only two guards have been arrested and arraigned in court over banker David Wokabi's death. Three other guards, among them their supervisor, are yet to be arrested. They fled after the arrest of their two colleagues. The two were earlier charged with assault but their charge sheet has since been amended to murder charges. They will appear at the Shanzu Law Court on Thursday next week to answer the new charges, according to police.   CRY FOR JUSTICE Friends and relatives of Mr Wokabi, who died last Sunday after he was beaten by Solvit Security guards at Nyali Centre, want the government to close the firm. According to CCTV footage seen by the Nation, Mr Wokabi, 35, was savagely beaten by five guards on January 7 for allegedly urinating at the parking lot. He was leaving one of the establishment at Nyali Centre, which houses a number of entertainment joints, banks, health centres and supermarkets. Mr Wokabi’s family said it does not believe he was attacked for urinating in the parking lot. He succumbed to his injuries after spending seven days in the Intensive Care Unit at Aga Khan Hospital in Mombasa. On Friday, his family and friends demonstrated at Nyali Centre in Mombasa, condemning the guards. “This is just one of the incidents that have come out to the media but we have heard of many horrifying cases linked to this company. For justice to be served, stern action should be taken against the company, including its being shut down,” said Mr John Njoroge, the Mombasa Kikuyu Council of Elders coordinator. CRITICISED The council said it was difficult to believe the explanation that Mr Wokabi was beaten up for urinating in the parking lot. “How can human beings be so cruel? Where did they get crude weapons such as a panga to use in cutting him just because of urinating? Are those guards really human beings? Justice must be served so that this company serves as an example to others,” said the council’s chairman Kahuthu Njoroge. They spoke at Aga Khan Hospital after collecting the body from the hospital’s morgue in Kizingo.   PROTEST The group then led a procession to the Nyali Centre to call for justice for Mr Wokabi, who is survived by a widow with two children. The group spent 30 minutes at the centre’s entrance where Mr Wokabi was mercilessly beaten by the guards. They then proceeded to Moi International Airport to transport the body to Nairobi. Mr Wokabi will be buried on Monday in Makutano, Mwea, Nyeri County. According to the post-mortem report, Mr Wokabi died of severe injuries to the brain sustained from three cuts on his head and one on the neck. The report states that the banker’s skull was badly injured. Police have arrested two guards in connection to the assault that resulted in his death.   David Wokabi died exactly one week after an attack by guards in Nyali.