Women leaders have urged Kenyatta National Hospital (KNH) to own up to insecurity challenges at the country’s largest referral facility. National Assembly Health Committee chairman Sabina Chege on Saturday said the rape allegations raised online should be investigated and addressed. OUTRAGE She said that the Health Committee would investigate the allegations levelled at the hospital in a series of Facebook posts on the ‘Buyer Beware’ page. The issue was raised on Facebook by Ms Mildred Owiso and it elicited online outrage from Kenyans. Facebook posts by women in response to the initial post have detailed shocking allegations of nurses killing ‘stubborn’ patients in the wards and babies in the facility’s newborn unit; attempted rape by morgue attendants, cleaners and male nurses; neglect by nurses; and physical abuse. CS Dr Cleopa Mailu has ordered an investigation into the allegations and is expected to make the probe report public on January 23, 2018. VISIT Ms Chege and other women leaders visited the hospital on Saturday. The new mothers told MPs they usually leave their ground and third floor wards three times every night to breastfeed their newborn babies at the first floor newborn unit. “The mothers are usually housed on the ground and third floors at the hospital’s old wing, and have to go up or down to breastfeed their babies, usually unaccompanied by security personnel,” said Ms Chege during a press conference at the hospital. The Murang’a Woman Representative said the major concern was that the mothers sometimes met mortuary attendants wheeling bodies to the morgue. “They meet with mortuary attendants especially at 3am and get scared, forcing them to run because of the bodies on stretchers. The second floor, where most mothers pass through to access the newborn unit, is poorly lit and does not have security personnel,” she said. INVESTIGATIONS Samburu West MP Naisula Lesuuda said: “KNH management should keep an open mind to allow thorough investigations into the allegations.” She said that one mother told them she was once accosted by a male patient on the corridor as she went to breastfeed her baby. “After she reported to the management, they increased security on that corridor. It is clear that it is aware of what is happening, otherwise they would not be telling mothers to go in groups or to avoid lifts with males,” said the MP, who also warned KNH against detaining patients over unpaid bills. Homa Bay Women Representative Gladys Wanga criticised the hospital’s CEO, Dr Lily Koros, over claims that the management is unaware of the incidents. “We were told the mothers were called on Thursday and informed about the case of a mother who entered a lift and met four men. She was afraid they would rape her, and ran out screaming. The management should just own up so that the problem can be resolved,” said Ms Wanga. DENIAL On Friday, Dr Koros said hospital security was yet to receive any reports of attacks against patients and she asked the public to ignore the rape and attempted rape allegations. Police officers at KNH, who could not be quoted because of protocol restrictions, also said they are not aware of such incidents as they had not received any report. “My work is to stay outside here until my shift is done and then leave. I am just like a gate watchman and do not know anything about what goes on inside the wards,” said an officer at the parking lot. DEMANDS The women legislators urged the KNH management to move new mothers closer to the newborn unit to avoid attacks. They also asked the hospital to ensure the corridors are well lit and to fast track the CCTV programme, which they said was only 30 per cent complete. Dr Koros had defended the idea of mothers walking from the ground and third floors to the first floor as justified “since the distance is not too far”. MPs proposed that mothers be accompanied by security officers to and from the newborn unit. CONCERN Meanwhile, the Federation of Women Lawyers Kenya (Fida) has added its voice to the chorus of concern over allegations of rape and abuse at the hospital. “FIDA has followed with great concern and is deeply troubled by the emerging reports highlighting horrific incidences of sexual abuse at Kenyatta National Hospital for nursing mothers admitted therein,” the organisation said in a press release signed by chairperson Ms Josephine Mong`are. “Patients, and especially mothers, should expect and experience the highest standard of care and must feel protected while they are at their vulnerable stages in life as inpatients. “Outright denial and immediate dismissal of the said incidences by the hospital’s management without conducting preliminary investigations into the matter is worrying.” The association termed “the shameful acts” an “outright violation of our women’s dignity and the right to lead a decent life and a violation of their constitutional entitlement to the highest attainable standard of reproductive health as guaranteed under Article 43(1) (a)”. Fida urged the state to urgently commence investigations into the alleged incidents and ensure patients are secure.   Reports emerge that mothers attacked on their way to check on their babies.