Nakuru County leadership had a rough time as it tried to mediate a raging dispute over sub-division of land at Ndabibi in Naivasha at the weekend. Agitated members of the Ndibithi Farmers Society, repeatedly heckled Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui, as he tried to pacify them during a meeting the meeting he convened on Saturday. Mr Kinyanjui and several other county leaders had to endure heckling from the members who claimed to have been locked out of the sub-division of the more than 1,000 acres more than 30 years ago. Naivasha Deputy Commissioner Jim Njoka had to intervene several times, as he appealed for calm to enable the meeting to proceed. The more than 200 farmers particularly took issue with the group's founder chairman, Mr Kagimbi Mungai, claiming he had contributed to their woes. But Mr Mungai absolved himself from blame, saying all bona fide members of the group benefited from the sub-division of the land that originally belonged to Lord Delamare. NECESSARY DOCUMENTS “I have all the necessary documents showing that all the transactions were above board,” he said. A member of the society, Mr Sammy Kung’u, claimed that “some strangers sold their land”, adding that they are preparing to seek redress in court. “We will not sit back and watch. We shall use all legal means to ensure justice is done,” he said But Maela Ward Representative Gathariki Kamanu said a number of those claiming ownership of the 1,000 acre parcel of land were “imposters.” “Most of them have no legal documents to validate their claims. But I welcome their decision to seek legal redress,” Mr Kamanu said. When he rose to speak, a visibly angry Governor Kinyanjui warned those inciting the farmers that punitive measures would be taken against them. “We shall not allow anyone to incite the farmers, and the law agencies will deal firmly with such individuals,” said the county boss. RESOLVE DISPUTE He formed a nine-man team that will work with land officials from the county to help resolve the long-standing dispute. Nakuru County Commissioner Joshua Nkanatha also sternly warned the disgruntled members of the society after some of them openly said they will not allow any activity or development on the disputed land. “Those who want to take the law into their own hands will be doing so at their own peril. We are closely monitoring activities in this place,” said the administrator. He said those who believe that fake title deeds were issued for the land portions should take up the matter with the relevant government agencies. In the land row, more than 200 farmers claiming to be members of the Ndibithi Farmers Society say they were left out during the sub-division of the 1,000 acres land done more than 30 years ago. Originally the land was 45,500 acres under Lerematesho limited (Delamere Company that formerly owned Ndabibi ADC complex). CASH REFUNDED According to Mr Kamanu, some 200 employees approached Lord Delamere in 1972 and he agreed to sell 1,500 acres to them in the first phase of the agreement. “After the first purchase was successfully concluded, the employees approached the Delamere family with the intention of purchasing an additional 1,000 acres but the deal fell through after some of the members opted out,” explained the MCA. The 1,000 acres was to be known as Matanya Njeru but after the split, members who had given out money for the purchase had their cash refunded in full. The 44,000 acres were later acquired by the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC) which in turn sold 400 acres to Mwana Mwereri group and the 600 acres sold to a top State official.   They said local leaders had failed to address the thorny land problem.