An Eldoret court has granted another divorce to 85-year-old controversial farmer-cum-politician Jackson Kibor. The court on Tuesday approved Mr Kibor’s divorce from Naomi Jeptoo, his third wife, after he successfully divorced his second wife in October last year. AFTER 43 YEARS While delivering her decision, Eldoret Principal Magistrate Naomy Wairimu said the couple’s 43-year-old marriage “is irretrievable”. The octogenarian was granted his wishes after he accused Jeptoo of deserting their matrimonial home together with their six children. The man claimed his wife, who left their matrimonial home voluntarily, became hostile and generally treated him with “utmost cruelty, contempt, neglect”, which caused him “untold psychological suffering”.   Through lawyer Stanley Kagunza, Mr Kibor further claimed that Jeptoo had been denying him conjugal rights, and that she has not been supportive to his projects as the head of the family. The woman’s attitude, the old man told court, influenced his six children to become hostile to him. These grounds are almost similar to the ones the large-scale farmer used to kick out his second wife of 51 years. He accused Josephine Jepkoech Kibor, 69, whom they had seven children together, of deserting their home and mistreating him. On Tuesday, the divorce was granted after Jeptoo failed to convince the court as she punched holes in her husband’s claims. VERDICT She said their marriage has been rosy, and that she still loves her husband. She told the court that she could not deny Mr Kibor his conjugal rights as he alleged. “This divorce cause is totally baseless and untenable as there is no grounds… I still love my husband and I do care for him together with his six children,” said Jeptoo in her reply. But on his part, Mr Kibor insisted that the marriage was "dead and irretrievable". He told the court that efforts by his parents and relatives to have Jeptoo change her behaviour and return to their matrimonial home have proved futile. He asked the court to end his "suffering". And it did.   Ms Wairimu, the magistrate, said having considered evidence produced in court by both the plaintiff and defendant, the court could not keep the parties together. 'I'M HAPPY' “Having heard both parties, I have made the findings that the marriage between the plaintiff and defendant has irretrievably broken down and I would therefore allow the prayer of plaintiff to dissolve the marriage,” she ordered. Mr Kibor, who had four wives, married Jeptoo in 1975 under the Nandi customary law. The first wife passed on and the old man now lives with his fourth wife. “I am happy today the court has granted me another divorce from my wife who has been extremely hostile and intolerant, causing me serious psychological suffering,” Mr Kibor said after the ruling. “I can now confidently say I will live for more years after divorcing this big-headed woman.”   Veteran politician free to end his 51-year-old marriage to his second wife.