Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka now says it is time President Uhuru Kenyatta considered forming a government of national unity as a way of healing the country once and for all after a fiercely contested presidential election last year. Mr Musyoka, who served as President Mwai Kibaki’s Vice-President between 2008 and 2013 under such an arrangement, argues that it is possible to have an inclusive government while at the same time playing the watchdog role. “We hope every community will feel part of government and this should be actualised in 2019. We would want, in my view, to see a government of national unity going forward,” Mr Musyoka said in an interview with the Sunday Nation. ROLES But he said that even as they engage with Mr Kenyatta, none of the Nasa principals was willing to take up a government appointment. They would, however, suggest to the President names of those from the opposition they would wish appointed, he implied. “It must, however, be clear that at the level of Raila (Odinga), Musalia (Mudavadi) and I, we will be out of mainstream government until the next elections. I can’t, for instance, see myself going to ask Uhuru to make me a Cabinet secretary, no way. "The more respected position is to make Raila AU envoy and in my case peace ambassador in South Sudan. That is a role we are ready to play,” he said. Mr Musyoka said that even as they play these roles abroad, they will still be active politically at home. “Some think that since Raila will be going around Africa and myself in Juba, now we have no role to play at home. That is far from it.” REFERENDUM Signalling that he, the President and Mr Odinga had agreed on a common position is so far as changing the laws goes, he said a referendum was the only way to address the problem of inclusivity in government. “Our democracy needs serious reform and the President agrees with me on this. They had said 20 percent of the Constitution needs relooking. This is the time to do so.” Without naming him, Mr Musyoka also took a swipe at Deputy President William Ruto who is against changing the law before the next General Election. “You have seen some who vehemently opposed the Constitution in 2010 now in a very tragic manner saying do not touch it. They’re saying leave it as it is because they are enjoying the benefits accruing from it. I find this a very selfish way of looking at it. True nationalists must brace themselves for a referendum,” he said. OPPOSITION He said the referendum question should be framed in a manner to hold the country together. “We can actually have a non-contested referendum. There are many such examples elsewhere. When Eritrea had a referendum to break away from Ethiopia, nobody contested it. It was the same case in South Sudan. "We can borrow a leaf from such. All we need is to ensure that the initiative is inclusive, let the churches, other religions and everyone be brought on board. I suggest we do it in 2019 or latest 2020,” the former vice-president said. Mr Musyoka said that he will be rooting for a more vibrant opposition through reintroduction of the official opposition in Parliament. “One of the things that call for the question is whether the person who comes second and his/her running mate should be in Parliament if they do not capture State House. This will strengthen the opposition and democracy. They will control the debate and keep the majority side on check. “We can bet, if Raila and I were in Parliament today, the House would be stronger compared to the current situation where lawmakers from our parties on many occasions ignore our advice on important matters when they get to the House,” he said. ELECTIONS Mr Musyoka said he will be running for president in 2022. “It would be very strange for me having been in public service and leadership and gained experience, and having supported my brother Raila for 10 years, to want to be anyone’s number two in 2022. If I prepare to run as somebody’s number two then I have lost it. I may not even be helpful to that person I will be seeking to deputise,” he said. On his “errand boy” remarks during the burial of his father last month, which triggered a political fireball that saw DP Ruto coming out to say that he is the only official “errand boy” for the President, the opposition leader said that while it was made in jest, he meant that there will be a lot of realignments in the country ahead of 2022. This is already happening. “It should not shock William that we may find ourselves on the same side going forward as errand boys. Anything is possible and as a former British Prime Minister said, even a week is a long time in politics,” he said. GRAFT And on complaints by allies of the deputy president that his community was being targeted in the war against corruption, Mr Musyoka said: “If there are people who have a sense of that guilt then that is their problem. If you have up to 40 percent of the country’s budget going to individuals’ pockets, then there is a problem which has to be urgently addressed. We support the President on this.” He accused the Church of condoning corruption in government by accepting monies stolen from the public. “The Church is the salt of the earth and the Bible says we discard salt when it loses its taste. It is the conscience of the country. You remember the 80s and 90s during the days of the likes of the vibrant Kipsang Muge, Bishop David Gitari and Henry Okullu when the church would issue pastoral letters. "This is not happening any more. My brother Mudavadi has been very vocal and consistent on this. You cannot bribe God, not possible,” he charged. RELEVANCE At a time the three governors from his backyard – Charity Ngilu (Kitui), Alfred Mutua (Machakos) and Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni) – have been considering a future of the region’s politics without him in it, Mr Musyoka shrugged this off, insisting that he had a firm grip on the region. “That community is very solid. If anybody wants to challenge me for the Wiper leadership, they are free. We have room for divergent views and this should not be construed to mean rebellion, I have never been a dictator and do not plan to be one. "However, party matters should not be discussed in the streets. There are channels to raise any emerging issues,” he said. Prof Kibwana has publicly criticised his party boss over his dalliance with Mr Kenyatta, accusing him of acting unilaterally and demeaning himself. “I am not answering my chairman, let’s be clear on this. But it is worth pointing out that the party was fully consulted on the way forward. I was not just talking haphazardly. "The NEC (National Executive Council) of the WDM sat in November and a resolution to work with the government of President Uhuru Kenyatta with regard to the fight against corruption, addressing inclusivity in government, unifying the country was made and this was read out by the party chairman,” he stated. DEBT On his role at the joint monitoring and evaluation commission (JMEC) on South Sudan, Mr Musyoka said: “The media actually jumped the gun. When they reported that I had taken over, we had actually gone to Juba with Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Monica Juma to deliver President Kenyatta’s letter to his counterpart, Kiir. The negotiations are well on course,” he said. He asked critics to be patient with Mr Kenyatta’s government on the question of the soaring public debt. “As long as we are able to show transparency in expenditure, Kenyans will have no problem. But Parliament must also address the issue by capping it against the GDP. "Having come from a highly divisive election, I do not advise that we go the Khartoum or French way where there are riots triggered by high cost of living. Ours has not gotten there but it has to be addressed.”   The President speaks on various issues affecting the country, and the agenda going forward.