The director of public prosecutions has approved money laundering and four other charges against management, trustees and an advocate of the Kenya Ports Authority Retirement Benefits Scheme, 2012. The case concerns the fraudulent sale agreement for the purchase of 100 acres of land in Kikambala, Kilifi County, at Sh700 million. THE CHARGES In a statement on Wednesday, DPP Noordin Haji said there was sufficient evidence to sustain charges of conspiracy to engage in corruption, breach of public trust, abuse of office, fraudulent acquisition of public property and dealing with suspect property. Chairman Fredrick Otieno Oyugi will face the first three charges. Lawyer Joseph Kanyi, of Kanyi J & Company Advocates. and Kikambala Development Company Limited director Jane Njeri Karanja will be charged with conspiracy and money laundering. Mr Kanyi alone will be arraigned on the allegation of fraudulent acquisition of property. The others who will face the conspiracy to commit corruption charge are Maurice Milimu Amahwa (pension administrator), and trustees John Karema, Renson Thoya Juma, Harry Arigi and Joy Asiena. IMMEDIACY The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission submitted its first report on the investigation on July 1, 2016 but Mr Haji asked for a further probe to determine whether there were additional charges. The second report was presented to the office of the DPP on August 7, 2018. Mr Haji asked the commission to "ensure immediate arraignment" of the suspects. Ephraim Maina Rwingo, another director of Kikambala Development, will also face the conspiracy charge alongside the organisation, as a separate entity, and Seline Consultants Limited. Mr Amahwa and the four trustees will also answer to the charges of breach of public trust and abuse of office. Mr Rwingo and Seline Consultants, which he serves as director, will additionally be charged with dealing with suspect property. OTHER CASES Meanwhile, Senior Principal Magistrate Felix Kombo earlier on Wednesday refused to reprimand the media following complaints by investigators on the coverage of an ongoing case against Kenya Power's former senior managers. Former managing directors Ben Chumo and Ken Tarus, and 12 others, are facing various charges in the Sh409 million fraud case on the purchase of faulty transformers. The trial began Monday, with the prosecution saying it will show how the 14 people hatched the plan to defraud the company. The prosecution has lined up a total of 45 witnesses.   A Kenya Railways debt of Sh227 billion has put Kenya's sovereignty at risk.