AFC Leopards will be seeking their first win in week three of the 2018/19 SportPesa Premier League (SPL) season when they take on Sofapaka on Saturday at the Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos County. The match will be preceded by that pitting Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) against Bandari. While the bankers are yet to bag maximum points on their premier league return after three years in the cold, Bandari are enjoying the form of their life having won their opening two games against champions Gor Mahia and Sofapaka with identical 2-1 score lines. Leopards, who drew 1-1 with Kariobangi Sharks in the season opener before being thumped 3-0 by Kakamega Homeboyz last weekend, meet a Sofapaka side that lost 2-1 to highflying Bandari last Sunday. Both teams have previously met 22 times with Batoto ba Mungu emerging victorious on ten occasions, Ingwe nine while three matches ended in a draw. “You might see a lot of goals in that game,” said Sofapaka coach Medo Melis adding “we’ve been working hard the entire week definitely we are going for three points though we respect our opponents who’ve a big fan base and are hungry for points too.” Ingwe’s Serbian coach Marko Vasiljevic heads into this game for the first time as head coach having been confirmed yesterday following the departure of compatriot Nikola Kavazovic. Barely a month into the job, Kavazovic officially dumped the 13-time champions for South African Premier Soccer League (PSL) side Free State Stars yesterday signing a two-and-a-half year deal. The 25-year-old Vasiljevic has not lost faith in his charges despite scoring a goal and conceding four in two games. “I believe in my team, step by step with better practice, we will hit the track,” he said. Robert Matano-coached Tusker, who fell 1-0 away to Western Stima last Sunday, will want to redeem themselves when they host winless Mount Kenya United at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani. Kariobangi Sharks and Gor Mahia play catch up games on Boxing Day after their continental fixtures on Saturday. Sharks will visit Nzoia Sugar in Bungoma as Gor Mahia welcome Posta Rangers in Machakos. FIXTURES Saturday KCB v Bandari (Kenyatta stadium, Machakos - 2pm) Sofapaka v AFC Leopards (Kenyatta stadium, Machakos - 4:15pm) Mathare United v Ulinzi Stars (MISC Kasarani - 3pm) Western Stima v Kakamega Homeboyz (Moi stadium, Kisumu - 3pm) Sunday Tusker v Mount Kenya United (MISC Kasarani - 3pm) Vihiga United v Sony Sugar (Bukhungu stadium - 3pm) Zoo Kericho v Chemelil Sugar (Kericho Green Stadium - 3pm) Boxing Day Nzoia Sugar v Kariobangi Sharks (Sudi stadium, Bungoma - 3pm) Gor Mahia v Posta Rangers (Kenyatta stadium, Machakos - 3pm)  