There has always been a December culture of football in Kenya that is very admirable to say the least. In almost every locality, tournaments are organised by the locals where existing teams and others are formed and they take part in the tournaments. The winners usually get a trophy for keepsake and sometimes funds are given as a token for the lads to share - especially during the election period when politicians wish to be seen ‘helping’ the society. The teams formed are usually fluid and when the next season comes, an influx may see names change and players move to other teams. The most interesting thing about these tourneys is the fact that the local people take sides and support their boys with the utmost fervour and morale that is very encouraging and at times surprising. These are their local lads and they feel a sense of ownership. In some instances, these well organised matches and tournaments are marred by fist fights. The reason why we have followed up on these tournaments and see it fit to inform you about them is that we find them very important and if they are well organised and funded, the country can benefit a lot from them. They look sloppy and useless to those who do not pay them keen attention but there are many talented kids out there that can only be recognised when seen playing in such events. In this way, they can be discovered much earlier and get the benefits of their talents. There are many Kenyan players plying their trade in Europe these days but the only problem is that they are discovered too late when their cheekbones have hardened and ligaments torn! They take too long to heal from minor injuries and thus never last long in the top European professional leagues. This can be avoided if we structure the lower leagues and even non-league football in this country. The task falls squarely within the purview of Football Kenya Federation. Of course they will be quick to point out the fact that rolling out such a programme is a costly affair. The price should not be the premier consideration at all. The moment it is started in earnest and with goodwill, it will rise up and support itself with time. Football Kenya Federation should start by at least giving out footballs, jerseys and other trifles that can make the children’s teams look cool. They can also provide trained and professional referees and draw up proper programmes for the teams and publicise the matches. That will be a great start. The sports ministry – for now seems unable or unwilling to undertake such noble initiatives - and that is why we implore FKF to just do this thing in their own way. The ministry may finally feel some shame and give some boost. All in all, we must congratulate the organisers of the KothBiro tournament in Nairobi. The consistency and popularity of this tournament serves as a beacon for the rest of the counties. Kudos and keep up the Great Spirit.  