This has been an extraordinary year for China and Kenya. It is not only the 40th anniversary of China's reform and opening up, but it also marks 55 years of diplomatic relations between China and Kenya. Over the several past decades, the level of economic and trade cooperation between the two countries has reached an unprecedented level. China has become Kenya's largest trading partner, the largest source of investment, and the largest engineering contractor. There is an old saying in China that it takes 10 years to grow trees, but a hundred to cultivate people. Talent is a country's most valuable resource and the core element of Africa's enhancement of its development capacity. SUPPORT DEVELOPMENT During the opening ceremony of 2018 Forum on China-Africa Cooperation Beijing Summit in September, President Xi Jinping announced eight major initiatives to support the development of African countries. He stressed the need to implement capacity building initiatives, exchange experiences between China and Africa, and provide human resources training. This has always been an important area for deepening cooperation between China and Kenya. Since the launch of the Foreign Aid Human Resources Training Programme in 2001, nearly 10,000 Kenyan government officials have been to China to participate in training seminars. After studying in China, many officials have been promoted or transferred to more important posts. China will increase foreign aid training to meet the needs of Kenya's economic and social development. From 2015 to this year, Chinese enterprises have offered 60,000 opportunities for training managers, skilled workers, doctors, teachers, and industry personnel. TRAINING It has also assisted in the completion of the Sino-Africa Joint Research Centre and will help to expand the Kenya Railway Training Institute and establish the China-Africa Teachers College of Vocational Education. This will help to equip Kenyans with advanced acknowledge and technical skills. The Chinese Government has funded more than 1,000 Kenyan students to study in China. This year, more than 100 students have won the Ambassador Scholarship, Chinese Government Scholarship and Ministry of Commerce Scholarship. BIG FOUR AGENDA In addition, hundreds of students have obtained scholarships from Confucius Institutes and other Chinese enterprises and organisations. From next year, the Kenya- China Economic and Trade Association (KCETA) will invest Sh2 million a year to finance the students from vocational and technical colleges. There are four Confucius institutes. The International Language and Culture Centre at Kenyatta University, aided by China, was completed. China will help to accelerate the realisation of ‘Big Four’ agenda. We hope to continuously develop the comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership between our countries. Dr Guo Ce is the economic counsellor, China Embassy in Nairobi  