Our new coach, Marko Vasiljevic should be given enough time for the players to be familiar with his coaching style as we yearn for better results. I hope the new coach is here for the long term since sacking coaches has seen Ingwe suffer unintended consequences. It is unbelievable that in a span of seven years Ingwe has had 20 different coaches. Having worked under his predecessor Nikola Kavazovic at Township Rollers in Botswana; they have the same coaching plan. Vasiljevic seems to be the right man for our beloved club, but he must be aware that fans want him to end the 21-year wait for the Kenyan Premier League (KPL) title we last won in 1998 when most of the current players were toddlers. Alongside Kavazovic, they helped Township Rollers win a double – the Botswana Premier League and the Mascom Top 8 Cup, besides other local achievements. During their tenure, Township Rollers became the first club from Botswana to qualify for the group stage of the CAF Champions League, last season. Among the teams they beat on the way included Al-Merreikh of Sudan, currently ranked 5th in Africa. They went on to beat Young Africans SC from Tanzania on aggregate before they lost in the group stage where they wee pooled together with Al Ahly of Egypt, Esperance de Tunis of Tunisia and KCCA of Uganda. They resigned in October, leaving Rollers in command of the log with a record six wins and a draw. Vasiljevic can save us from the quagmire we find ourselves in if we give him enough time. Please let’s not put too much pressure on the coach to deliver. I am hopeful that the boys will be up to the task for the remaining fixtures under the young tactician who has promised to prepare a strong team that will deliver, even after producing a worthy performance since the league started. Although the coach has asked us to be a little more patient before we see all the new players in action, I am impressed with the signing of striker Marcelo Bonaventure Kaheza as we wait for other new stars to obtain their required levels of match fitness. Kaheza may not have been the right fit for AFC Leopards at the moment but he is still a good signing with Ingwe in desperate need of a goal getter after Alex Orotomal and Ezekiel Odera left to join St Georges of Ethiopia and Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) respectively. Welcome our super striker from the DRC. Since we have had challenges in our striking force, the Congolese who has an eye for goal and knows when to position himself in the danger zone could be the solution to our finishing problems that can see Ingwe once again become a consistent performer. The powerful striker, who has trained with the team for two weeks, has been very impressive in friendly matches. Kaheza has a chance to thrive in our local league after signing a one year loan deal. He is only 22 and his best years are ahead of him. The Congolese was a consistent goal scorer and performer at Simba SC and Maji Maji of Tanzania before he was officially brought in to add punch to our squad. With other new arrivals Tanzanian Weka Yeka Tatuwe, Isaac Kipyegon from Zoo Kericho and international goalkeeper Eric ‘Bakame’ Ndayishimiye having already marched straight into the starting X1, Ingwe is set to improve. Though our signing policy is wanting, congratulations to our technical bench for spotting Kaheza! He can be the lead striker that Ingwe has lacked for many years. As long as he maintains his fitness and is given a place in the starting line-up, his power, strength, and clinical finishing capabilities witnessed in training will come in handy.  