Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi has lauded President Uhuru Kenyatta's tour of Nyanza, the home of his former fierce opponent Raila Odinga, saying the visit is good for the country. President Kenyatta toured his Raila's political base in Kisumu and Siaya counties to push for unity after their newfound camaraderie that was hatched by their famous handshake on March 9 on the steps of Harambee House annex. During his tour, Mr Kenyatta launched a universal health coverage pilot programme in Kisumu and commissioned the Ahero interchange. The tour culminated in the two leaders' receiving honorary degrees from Jaramogi Oginga Odinga University for their efforts to unite country following tense post-election period. Mr Mudavadi, who did not join his former National Super Alliance (Nasa) colleague and presidential flagbearer Raila in welcoming their 2019 General Election rival to Nyanza, said the new friendship needs to be actualised. “We need to see the actual steps going forward. This was a process of saying they want harmony, they want people to come together. That is okay but we need to see the concrete issues addressed,” said Mr Mudavadi, who was the brain behind the opposition’s coalition Nasa. Mr Mudavadi said he wants issues at the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) addressed following the leadership wrangles that split it during and after the elections. He blamed IEBC of being the source of tensions in Kenya that time and gain erupt after elections. CORRUPTION Speaking at Kongowea Catholic Church in Mombasa after attending a wedding for his party chairman Kelvin Lunani, Mr Mudavadi said also took aim at persistent underfunding of anti-graft agencies. “If you want to fight corruption in the country, there are important agencies that must be well funded. Judiciary, investigators and prosecutors among others. These are all very important and although we have been talking about the fight on corruption, this government through Parliament has been limiting funds to these agencies, therefore, hampering their efforts do an effective job,” Mr Mudavadi said. The ANC leader cited the recent Judiciary’s budget cut which means the institution may not employ new judges and magistrates. “At the moment we have about 500 magistrates and 150 judges…You will find that a judge is serving about a million people,” said the ANC leader. Mr Mudavadi said other countries such as the United States have about 200 judges per one million people. The ANC leader wants the Judiciary, Director of Public Prosecutions, Directorate of Criminal Investigations and Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission allocated more funds.   In a meeting that went past mid-night, Luo leaders present a raft of demands to the President