With six months left before our beloved club goes to the polls in June, 2019, I pray that those aiming to vie for various seats conduct their campaigns peacefully. As we continue breaking our own record of sacking coaches, we must start looking for the right leadership to end our persistent management crises. Despite their management vision, the current office led by Dan Mule has had many challenges after failing to develop short and long term strategic plans. They have also failed to display courage, commitment, care, compassion and a code of ethics. They are equally to blame for the current situation we find ourselves in for failing to make player welfare their top priority. Nowadays our team has become a punching bag for our arch rivals K’Ogalo! However, I pray that as we move into the new year, our leadership remembers that a crisis is an opportunity to allow for intense dialogue with members. This is the only way they can herald positive change that forges a new path of awareness, integrity, ethics and a sense of purpose, performance, profit and perception of its brand to create a conscious team. For the voters, we must recognise the worth of our votes and the trust placed in us as members and shareholders and not individuals driven by greed and dishonest dealings. We must elect people who are not corrupt to avoid disastrous consequences. For Ingwe to return where we belong, we need the most powerful leadership with moral muscles in place. The character of all those vying for positions must be evaluated and examined before they cleared to stand. Our club needs more capital than can be provided by fans and those giving incentives to our team should be encouraged, and those who made Ingwe a milking cow should be exposed. When the leadership of any organisation has the passion, purpose and an innate calling to do the right thing without instructions, as courageous leaders who are willing to utilise their resilience and resources for the greater good then growth is inevitable. Before polls are held, Ingwe members are now demanding for a an electoral committee to supervise elections, after the current office ignored the need to review the club constitution in line with the Kenya constitution 2010 and the Sports Act of 2013. The registrar clearly stated that failure to comply with any of the above conditions may lead to cancellation of the Certificate of Registration. They are also demanding for an independent audit of the club’s accounts as the current officials exit office. Dan Mule’s team has failed to achieve their goals despite having stayed in office the longest, since they were elected in July 2016 at Kasarani. We have a number of people willing to support this big club but there is nobody to give them direction to help us reclaim our lost glory. Ingwe needs a tough and efficient chairman if we want to move forward! Every member has the right to vie in June, but it’s high time to say no outsiders who want to occupy our top seats. Let’s match ahead and bring our heritage back. You cannot entertain an alien with our cultural pride! Before the season kick-off, Leopards played several local friendly matches and convincingly won against Ulinzi Stars (2-1), Posta Rangers (2-1), KCB (2-0) before drawing 1-1 with Wazito FC. But coach Nikola Kavazovic who conducted the pre-season training left the country mysteriously only for an announcement to made later that he is on compassionate leave and expected back soon! Kavazovic had changed Ingwe’s way of playing, but since he left, we have drawn 1-1 with Kariobangi Sharks in our opening league match, before being thumped by Kakamega Homeboyz who thumped us 3-0 away at Bukhungu Stadium on Saturday. Our top goal scorer, Michele Katsvairo was not involved in the two league matches, together with other new imports whose work permit papers are not ready; leaving Ingwe’s striking force in shambles!  