The re-emergence of deaths of suspected criminals in the hands of the police is worrying. It signals descent into lawlessness. The role of the police is to enforce law and order — with the use of lethal force as a last resort. Their mandate is to seize suspected criminals, conduct investigations on their activities and prosecute the cases in a court of law, which is the entity with the constitutional mandate to impose punishment. However, as we have been reporting lately, there is a consistent pattern in which police take the law into their own hands and instead of arresting and charging suspects in court, resort to killing. EVIDENCE Many families have come out to voice the pain they have been subjected to as their loved ones have been killed on suspicion of being criminals. Yesterday, for example, we reported numerous cases of youngsters, most of them aged below 25, who have been killed by police who portray them as hardcore criminals but without providing concrete evidence. Even if they were hardcore criminals, the law protects everyone. Nobody should be executed just on suspicion and without proper interrogation of the facts by a court of law. All that amounts to a travesty of justice. That is not acceptable in a country that subscribes to human rights protection. Indeed, the right to life is sacrosanct and can never be negotiated. GUIDELINES What is troubling is that extrajudicial killings are pervasive. The matter has been discussed in the past but no permanent solution has been found. It is a serious human rights issue that cannot be wished away so easily as some of those in authority would want us to. Police officers have rules that guide how they ought to handle suspects. They can use force or guns but only on those who have proved unruly and even then, not to kill. But we have trigger-happy police officers who shoot to kill even when their lives are not in danger. That is clear misuse of powers, which must be condemned by all and a solution found. JUSTICE We are cognisant of the level of insecurity across the country. Some criminals are quite dangerous. But there are legal provisions of handling them. The National Police Service and the Independent Policing Oversight Authority must rein in rogue police officers hell-bent on shooting and killing civilians under the guise of law enforcement. We call for an end to extrajudicial killings, which have no place in a civilised society.  