AFC Leopards and promoted side Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB)’s technical benches have come under early pressure after a winless start to the 2018/19 SportPesa Premier League (SPL). Leopards, 13-time champions, were humbled 3-0 by Kakamega Homeboyz at Bukhungu stadium on Saturday while KCB lost their second consecutive match going down 3-1 to Ulinzi Stars at Afraha stadium on Sunday. Ingwe’s preseason plans were disrupted by the abrupt departure of Serbian coach Nikola Kavazovic who returned to his native country allegedly to be with his ailing dad. It later emerged that Kavazovic had applied for the vacant coaching position at South African Premier Soccer League (PSL) side Free State Stars. The Leopards management has given him until Monday to make up his mind on whether to return or quit altogether according to sources within the club's hierarchy. “I didn’t say yes to anyone. People are asking when I will come back or why I really left, that remains private,” Nikola told Nation Sport from his base in Belgrade on the reported links to Free State Stars. The Serbian sent his assistant Marko Vasiljevic to hold forte for him in his absence. The 25 year old Marko has been in charge of Leopards opening two games drawing 1-1 with Kariobangi Sharks before the heavy defeat in Kakamega. In KCB’s camp, they seem to have been slowed down by the massive overhaul the team underwent after regaining their place in the top flight league. KCB coach Frank Ouna has kept faith in only three players from the squad that successfully brought them up from National Super League. Kennedy Owino, Chris Onyango and Simon Munala are the survivors from that lot with the rest of the starters having joined the club in close season. Ouna himself joined KCB after he failed to save Wazito FC from the big axe. The former Gor Mahia assistant coach is on record stating that the club’s objective is to avoild relegation this season. Meanwhile, Kariobangi Sharks hosts Sony Sugar at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani this afternoon in a rescheduled match before their trip to Kumasi to face Ghanaian side Asante Kotoko in the return leg of the Caf Confederation Cup on Saturday. Both teams played to a 1-1 draw in their first games of the season, Sharks holding Leopards as Sony denied Tusker maximum points at the death.  