It was not a bicycle affair but a Land Cruiser V8 entry at Gatitu MCA Simon Muturi’s wedding. Most people undoubtedly recall the story of the 26-year-old unemployed youth from Nyeri who managed to raise just Sh30, 000 for his political campaign when aspirants in the country were splashing millions in their quest to clinch a ward representative seat. He cycled his way to clinch the MCA seat on a bicycle. Since his election, the Gatitu MCA has managed to buy a new car and dumped the bicycle that had been branded in Jubilee colours. On Saturday, the Gatitu MCA, his fiancée Eunice Gichohi and their bridal team arrived at PCEA Muruguru to exchange wedding vows in luxurious vehicles.   Wearing a striking navy blue suit, Mututi officially ditched the bachelor’s club. His bride was wearing a beautiful white gown with a flowing tail that made her look like Cinderella in her fairy tale wedding. Though he is still referred to as MCA wa Muithikiri to mean the ward representative who used to ride a bicycle, the new seat has brought good tidings.   A fleet of Toyota Prados among other luxurious vehicle formed a long convoy to the church and the reception area. Locals turned out in large numbers to witness their ward rep who campaigned on a bicycle tie the knot in a flashy wedding.   It was a drastic change of fortune, for the young man who could not then afford hiring a vehicle for his campaign. But on Saturday, some of his newfound friends offered their vehicles.   Governor Mutahi Kahiga, Senator Ephraim Maina, Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua, County Assembly Speaker John Kaguchia were among the invited guests. The leaders advised the couple to play deaf to criticism and concentrate on making sure that their marriage works. “The first five years of your union will be hard. But my advice to Muturi is that when you wife is angry try not to match her anger. Just relax and wait for her to calm down,” he said. Muturi’s colleagues and staff from the assembly were also present and took up roles at the weddings.   Who would have imagined a time when we would have a 23-year-old MP?