The British Government has expressed willingness to assist Kenya’s former freedom fighters despite collapse of a compensation suit a number of them had filed in a court in England. Barely a month after the payout suit was thrown out, Her Majesty’s Government positively responded to a request by Dedan Kimathi Foundation, who have initiated a programme to settle and offer humanitarian assistance to some survivors of Kenya’s independence war and their families. “I will explore this. It would also be useful for you to submit this to our UK-Aid Direct programme, which is more of a challenge fund model and awards grants to projects across the world,” wrote Mr Nikolai Hutchinson, the conflict and governance adviser at the British High Commissioner’s office last September 26. REVIEW REQUEST He was responding to an email that members of the foundation had sent to the UK Government requesting assistance to purchase 12,000 acres of land in Rumuruti, Laikipia County. They had attached a detailed proposal showing how they plan to use Sh2.5 billion that they intend to raise with the assistance of the Kenyan Government and development partners, together with other well-wishers, to buy the property. Only those rendered landless by British colonial powers would be settled on the expansive land. Currently, the foundation is in the process of securing the land from Mathira Kihindu Gitaraga Kahonoki Land Company. And as the country celebrates this year’s Jamhuri Day, members of Dedan Kimathi Foundation are still hopeful that the UK Government will remain supportive of their campaign to address some of the problems freedom fighters have faced over time. Mr Hutchinson promised to ensure they review the request, although he informed the foundation that most of their programmes in Kenya are already planned in detail. QUICK RESPONSE That is why he advised the foundation to submit the same communication to UK-Aid Direct programme, which is a charitable institution that awards grants to different projects across the world. “We were surprised by the UK Government’s quick response,” foundation director Ndung’u Wangenye told the Nation. He said that after they wrote the email, the British Government responded after just two days, then its embassy hosted them for discussions. Members of Dedan Kimathi Foundation want to resettle 3,500 families of war veterans from all parts of the country, on the proposed piece of land. “We target to raise Sh2.5 billion, which we shall use to buy the land and for other logistics,” the foundation executive chairperson Wanjugu Kimathi, who is the daughter of slain freedom war hero Dedan Kimathi, said. One acre, according to her, is going for Sh180,000, which members are expected to contribute. SUFFERED ATROCITIES They have so far raised more than Sh10 million from members. Ms Kimathi said they expect much assistance from the British Government following a meeting they held later with Mr Hutchinson. The foundation is an initiative of sons and daughters of former freedom fighters. One of its objectives is to address the problems survivors of the freedom struggle have faced over the years and see how they can be resolved. The Kimathi family was in the group of more than 41,000 survivors of the freedom war that had filed a compensation suit in the UK court, which was dismissed in August. They had sought compensation for torture, wrongful detention and other atrocities suffered at the hands of British colonial rulers. The suit was before the Queen’s Bench Division of the High Court in England. But Judge Justice Stewart ruled that the petitioners do not deserve any compensation. LEADERSHIP WRANGLES Why? The period the alleged atrocities happened, and the time they lodged their complaint, was too long to enable a competent trial. This was the second group to seek compensation. Another group of 5,228 ex-freedom fighters sued the British Government through the Kenya Human Rights Commission and was awarded Sh2.7 billion in an out-of-court settlement. Since independence, Mau Mau war veterans have failed to unite in addressing their plight. Many of them have remained landless. Attempts to lodge claims with the governments of Kenya and Britain have often failed, mainly because of unending leadership wrangles. Besides Dedan Kimathi Foundation, there are other groups of former freedom fighters and their relatives.   Mzee Njugi popularly known as General Kimbo has fond memories of General Gicheru.