The Director of Public Prosecutions has approved three charges against outgoing Kenya Pipeline Company Managing Director Joe Sang and five others in the case concerning the Kisumu oil jetty. The case involves allegations of misappropriation of public funds in the KPC's procurement and construction of the jetty at a cost of at least Sh2 billion. ABUSE In a statement on Friday, DPP Noordin Haji approved charges of abuse of office, willful failure to follow procedures and engaging in a project without prior planning against six people. The other five are Gloria Rabai Khafafa (Company Secretary), Vincent Korir Cheruiyot (General Manager, Supply Chain), Billy Letunya Aseka (General Manager, Infrastructure), Nicholas Gitobu (Procurent Manager) and Samuel Odoyo (General Manager, Finance). Mr Haji said their prosecution will begin immediately. ARRESTS Mr Sang, Mr Khafafa, Mr Cheruiyot, Mr Gitobu and Mr Aseka was arrested earlier on Friday Shortly after, Petroleum Principal Secretary Andrew Kamau announced that Mr Sang had been replaced with Mr Hudson Andambi. Mr Andambi will serve in acting capacity. The KPC is also under probe for the alleged theft of Sh528.5 million during the construction of the facility. Another case concerns the alleged spill of more than 21 million litres of fuel, the company pointing the finger at vandals. In his statement, the DPP noted that his decision followed recommendations by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations on charges against several senior managers at the KPC. "I am satisfied that there is sufficient evidence to support [the charges], he said. CASE PROGRESS Mr Sang resigned three days ago, saying it was for personal reasons. His term was to end in April. On the oil spill scandal, company chairman John Ngumi invited oil-marketing companies to carry out a forensic audit of stock positions. Meanwhile, Petroleum Cabinet Secretary Peter Munyes was to face the Senate Energy committee on Thursday to shed light on the scandals at the State corporation but he did not. While explaining that he faced logistical problems, he promised to face the senators next week.   Hudson Andambi appointed as the acting MD.