President Uhuru Kenyatta and Orange Democratic Movement leader Raila Odinga continued with their tour of Nyanza on Friday with their next stop being the latter’s home turf in Bondo, Siaya County. President Kenyatta on Thursday night hosted elected leaders from Luo Nyanza at the Kisumu State Lodge after presiding over the launch of a Universal Health Coverage (UHC) pilot project at the Mamboleo showground. The head of state also presided over the ground breaking of Ahero interchange and inspected Sh7.6 billion Kakamega-Kisumu Road works at Mamboleo junction. Nation could not immediately confirm the agenda of the Thursday night meeting but can authoritatively disclose that it was so closely guarded that even elected leaders from Kisii were asked to excuse themselves as the Mr Kenyatta and Mr Odinga met “purely Luo Nyanza elected leaders.” 'KICKED OUT' Kisii Governor James Ongwae, his Nyamira counterpart John Nyagarama and Kitutu Chache North MP Jimmy Angwenyi who had earlier joined Luo Nyanza governors, senators and MPs at the meeting were urged to excuse themselves but later met with the President. Kisumu ward representatives who were at the State Lodge were also requested to leave. Senate Minority Leader James Orengo and his National Assembly counterpart John Mbadi said the President and Mr Odinga only wanted to meet elected leaders from Luo Nyanza. “You are kindly requested to excuse yourselves as the President wishes to meet elected leaders from Luo Nyanza, excluding the MCAs,” Mr Orengo said. Mr Mbadi added: “It is just a humble request but he will meet everybody later.” The Deputy President William Ruto who had accompanied the head of state and Mr Odinga on their visits did not attend and so did his ally Migori Governor Okoth Obado. HONORARY DEGREES On Friday, the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga University of Science and Technology (JOOUST) will honour the President and Mr Odinga with honorary degrees because of their peace initiatives following their March 9 deal. The two leaders will be conferred with the degrees at the university’s main campus in Bondo, Siaya County. Prof Stephen Agong, the vice chancellor of JOOUST told the Nation they are honouring the two erstwhile opponents for their peace initiative following their March 9 handshake that ended weeks of political turmoil after the disputed 2017 Presidential election.   The Uhuru-Raila relationship causes unease among Ruto's backers.