Security agents have launched investigations into claims that politicians are funding criminal gangs in Kisauni and Nyali constituencies, Mombasa County. From November to date, 20 people have been killed by a dreaded gang and many others left with serious injuries. Speaking to journalists at Uhuru na Kazi offices in Mombasa, regional coordinator Bernard Leparmarai - who is the chairman of Coast security team - said police will put all their efforts to unravel those behind the gangs. “Somebody must be funding these people and I want to tell you that whoever it is and however connected or big you are, we will come for you and your godfather. Our investigations are on and we will end what is happening in these areas,” Mr Leparmarai said on Thursday. His remarks came a day after Nyali MP Mohammed Ali claimed that politicians who were knocked out in the last General Election were sponsoring the gangs. SUSPECTS Mr Ali alleged that the politicians were doing so to prove that current office holders are incapable of fulfilling their mandate. “Security agents should not put politics into consideration but do their work and we shall fully support you. Whatever is going on, there are some politicians who are massively involved. "We have never seen such cases whereby people kill without stealing anything. There must be someone. Security is a national mandate and the police should use their power to ensure Kenyans are protected,” Mr Ali said. Mr Leparmarai added that seven people suspected to be behind the wave of killings in the sub-counties have been arrested while six others are being hunted. The arrests were made after a suspected gang leader was apprehended; two other leaders are being sought. County police commander Johnston Ipara said the suspect was arrested at a lodging in Bamburi. FEAR The suspected gangster is among three people who police were looking for following recent killings. The Wednesday arrest came a day after 10 other suspects were caught. The criminals have turned some parts of the sub-counties: Kadzandani, Vikwatani, Mafisini, Soweto Junda, Mishomoroni and Kwa Bulo to no-go zones. They are usually armed with crude weapons. According to the intelligence reports, the members of the gangs mostly wear black attire, veils and jungles with their heads covered. TEAM EFFORT During Jamhuri Day celebrations at Tononoka Grounds on Wednesday, insecurity was the main theme. Politicians and security agents called for cooperation among them to tame the menace. Governor Hassan Joho said the problem would only be addressed if residents take the responsibility of tackling it. “On Monday next week, we are going to hold a meeting with the security apparatus to discuss possible solutions to address these issues. We will then roll out a campaign dubbed “Be involved” so that each one of us can be part of this fight against insecurity,” Mr Joho said.   The case will be taken over by a Nairobi homicide team.