The Gentleman asks me out for an early dinner and I happily oblige. I take a tuktuk from my hotel to ‘short beach’, where I find him waiting on a speedboat which we use to cross over from the mainland to Rock and Sea. On arrival at this stunning and secluded resort, we have to take a flight of what must be at least 100 steep stairs just to get to the restaurant. Talk about having to toil for our supper! Watamu is ridiculously hot this time of the year, and I already have the tell-tale signs of a heat rash to prove it. You don’t even have to be doing anything strenuous like running a marathon... you are constantly drenched in sweat for simply daring to even breathe in this environment. Throw in the stairs and by the time we sit down at our table, I am a mess! This is our second date, and all semblance of trying to look chic and put together goes out the window. The restaurant, which is perched on a cliff, however makes the climb worth it. Mida Creek is famed for its sheer beauty and breathtaking sunsets, and we are absolutely spoiled with this view. I love the Italian dining culture, which is always accompanied by a drink. We start off with an aperitivo, a pre-meal drink taken to whet the appetite before the main meal. For this we have a glass of red wine accompanied by snacks and a delicious light breeze from the sea. For the main meal, I don’t even glance at the menu – tuna is such a delight and given the extortionist prices it is sold at in Nairobi, I indulge every time I’m at the coast. So I have the pan seared tuna coated with sesame seeds, coupled with a fresh salad and a very essential slice of lime. I have been enjoying seeds lately – growing up in Kenya, they were not a diet staple. Sesame was only ever consumed as ‘simsim’ balls. Adding ingredients like toasted sunflower seeds to a dish is however a great way to elevate the flavour. The sesame adds a rich nutty flavour to the fish and throw in some lime and it is simply divine – and surprisingly very filling since the portion looked small. Afterwards, per tradition, we have a digestivo which, according to The Gentleman, will settle the stomach and help digest the meal. I have my doubts about the science behind this but there is no disputing that it is indeed a lovely way to end a meal. He has a montenegro while I, with my affinity for the acidic flavour in citrus fruits, go with a limoncello. If you are ever in Watamu, stop here for a date or perhaps even a family meal. The location is beautiful and the staff is very friendly and efficient, starting right from the manager.   Madame Connoisseuse has a romantic encounter over some decadent pizza.