The killers of former Kilifi Deputy Governor Kenneth Kamto will be found, Deputy President William Ruto assured at his burial in Rabai on Wednesday. Mr Kamto was was shot dead inside his house in Mombasa County on December 12 by a gang of three men in masks. POLICE DIRECTIVE The DP told mourners that he had directed police to ensure thorough investigations and the arrest of the killers. “When I heard the news from my friend Gideon Mung’aro, I called his wife for an explanation. After getting the full briefing, I immediately called Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet and told him to send a special team to investigate this heinous crime,” he said. "I assure you that the killers of our friend and colleague will not go scot-free. His death will be investigated to the end." Mr Ruto's assurance came amid calls by leaders for a proper probe into the murder, which they described as cruel and painful. The DP spoke at the ceremony which top regional politicians attended. They included governors Amason Kingi, Salim Mvurya (Kwale) and Hassan Joho (Mombasa), and senators Christine Zawadi (nominated), Mohamed Faki (Mombasa) and Issa Boy (Kwale). Others were William Kamoti (Rabai), Ken Chonga (Kilifi South), Owen Baya (Kilifi North), Paul Katana (Kaloleni), Teddy Mwambire (Ganze), Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Naomi Shaban (Taveta), Badi Twalib (Jomvu), Charles Njagua (Starehe) Gertrude Mbeyu (Kilifi), Zulekha Juma and Benjamin Tayari (Kinango). RISING INSECURITY Citing a raid at his home, Governor Kingi said the security situation in Mombasa is wanting. He said: "I was lucky that they failed to reach the room I was in. If a thug can have the audacity to attack a leader in his own house, what about a resident in the village?" On Mr Kamto, he added, "We are not happy because he died a painful death. It must be investigated thoroughly and those who killed him brought to book." Governor Kingi said the county helped with the burial expenses owing to Mr Kamto's service as the first governor. "The respect he commanded remains," he said, adding that he and Governor Joho will give Sh2 million in support of his widow and for the education of their children PRETENCE Governor Joho, who also called for a through probe, regretted that Mr Kamto was shunned by politicians, who claimed they were his friends, as he struggled with life outside office. “Mr Kamto faced some challenges in [his general] life and as a politician. I know he may have called some of you ... you refused to take his calls. This is our style as politicians ... I will not shy away from telling the truth," he said. "We need to support each other even after leaving active politics. Some of us are full of praises for our fallen colleague yet it is true that we shunned him." Mr Mvurya said the former deputy governor was his close friend and that they worked together while in the Orange Democratic Movement and after he defected to Jubilee Party in the run up to the August 8, 2017 general election. “It is in this area that Mr Kamto defected. He meant what he said ... his death must be well investigated. This is too sad for Coast leaders,” he said. GOVT SECURITY Mr Kamoti said the community has lost a dedicated and selfless leader. “It is with great sadness that we mourn a person who touched many people in Rabai. His death was so cruel and must be investigated properly,” he said. The legislator asked the government to provide security for its servants, even when they leave office, to prevent such cases. “Had he been with security officers, this would not have happened. While in power, leaders tend to cross others' paths and create enemies," he said. "That is why it is important for them to have guards while out of office because they become more vulnerable. This is a good example." POLICE OVERHAUL Ms Jumwa called for an overhaul of the police service in the coastal region, saying they have failed to address insecurity. “Somebody was killed metres away from a police station and [yet the culprits are yet to be arrested]. Why, because police are sleeping on their jobs,” she said. Mr Kamto was killed shortly after visiting at least two places in the upmarket Nyali. Coast Regional Police Commander Noah Mwivanda said local detectives were investigating the murder but that the homicide team would take over.   Mr Kamto will be laid to rest in Bejana village, Kilifi County.