Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula now wants the controversial Sh38 billion medical equipment lease deal from the national government to counties stopped immediately, saying it is riddled with corruption. Mr Wetang’ula wants the deal stopped “to save the country from further financial loss”. The Ford Kenya party leader was speaking during a fundraiser in aid of Namuduru Girls Secondary School in Funyula Constituency on Friday. “Lets us see head rolls in the whole medical equipment leasing saga that has turned out to be another Anglo Leasing scandal. Our stand in the Senate is very clear – that this programme will not benefit counties and should be stopped,” said Mr Wetang’ula. CORRUPTION He at the same time asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to tame rampant corruption in his administration which he said has denied Kenyans an opportunity to access better services. “There are some stones that are remain unturned. I urge the President to show more ruthlessness in stamping out rampant corruption in government,” he said. During the function, Mr Wetang’ula was accompanied by Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati, Busia governor’s wife Judy Ojaamong and Ford Kenya leaders from the county led by Bwiri MCA Beatrice Kanoti. COMMISSIONS The senator further called for the strengthening of constitutional commissions and independent offices in order to help in the fight against corruption. “We must re-look at the constitutional structure of these offices to ensure they are truly independent to tame graft. The office of the Directorate of Public Prosecutions, the Judiciary and auditor-general should be able discharge their mandate without looking behind their shoulders,” he said. Governor Wangamati said he is committed to ensure education standards in the region are uplifted to secure the future of the region. “I urge members of Parliament to draft a Bill that will deal ruthlessly with those behind a wave of teenage pregnancies that threaten to dilute efforts to educate the girl child,” he said. On politics, the governor urged residents of western Kenya to join hands in efforts to unite the region ahead of 2022 elections. “I will be hosting governors from this region in a forum that will chart the way forward for the region. We are tired of playing second fiddle to other regions despite commanding a considerable population,” he said.   Senators angered by reports that suppliers have increased the monthly payments for the equipment.