The results of the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) examinations will be released in the next few days as marking was completed on Friday. The exercise ended at 19 centres in Nairobi and its environs, setting the stage for analysis of the results which could be released before the end of the week. POSSIBLE DATE On Friday, several examiners left the centres with top leaders of the Kenya National Examinations Council (Knec) moving from one to another to monitor the analysis, which had already begun. Marking started immediately after the examinations at centres including Mang'u, St Georges Girls', Buruburu Girls', State House Girls' and Thika. It took place under tight security and strict supervision by Knec officials led by chairman George Magoha. Examiners who participated in the exercise said it was not as tough as last year’s since they had enough time to mark. Those who made simple mistakes were kicked out. “The marking started at 6am and went on until 9pm. An examiner was required to mark at least 100 scripts,” said one who did not want to be named. The examiner said the results are likely to be issued before December 20. Last year's results were announced on this date. Ministry of Education officials have remained guarded on when exactly the results will be released but say it will be before Christmas. “The leadership of the country (President Uhuru Kenyatta) will announce the date,” Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed said at Nairobi School, when she witnessed the sealing of the last paper. THE FUTURE The 2018 examinations were the 29th since the introduction of 8-4-4 system of education. A total of 664,585 candidates wrote the tests which began on November 5 and ended on November 28. The candidates were examined in 31 subjects which made up a total of 76 papers. They were required to write tests in a minimum of seven and a maximum of nine subjects. The students will be eyeing close to 100,000 slots in 70 public and private universities in the country while those who won’t make the cut point will likely join technical colleges. They wrote their examinations in 10,077 centres across the country, with a total of 83,711 field officers being involved. During the examinations, there were 10,078 centre managers, 10,460 supervisors, 37,978 invigilators, 20,156 security personnel and 5,039 drivers. MALPRACTICES During the tests, officials in charge of 10 centres were relieved of their duties as centre managers for allowing the transportation of materials in private vehicles, contrary to the requirement for use of government transportation only. A total of 110 people including candidates, who attempted cheating, were arrested owing to the watchful eyes of security-men, monitors and other officials. At least 10 board of management teachers in four schools were arrested in connection to various cases of malpractices. A total of 101 cell phones were confiscated from teachers, candidates and school staff. Four students were deregistered for impersonation. Knec has warned that those who were involved in any form of cheating will pay the price. 2017 RESULTS In the results of the 2017 exams, Sing’ore Girls’ High School in Elgeyo-Marakwet County topped with a performance index of 69.9 per cent. A total of 271 candidates were registered. Light Academy in Mombasa County, which had 28 candidates, came second with a performance index of 69.15 per cent, while Alliance Girls’ High School, with 394 candidates, followed closely at position three with an index of 68.6 per cent. Pangani Girls' produced the best candidate in the country - Karimi Naomi Kawira scored an A of 87.011 points. Another two of its students - Muraya Mongina and Emily Mwatate - were also among the top 10. The school’s performance index in the 2017 examinations was 66.222 and it was ranked position 10 nationally. The release of the results will set stage for scramble for elite courses in top universities in the country.   Education CS says no cheating was recorded in the examination which ended Wednesday.