Western Stima maintained their perfect start to the 2018/2019 SportPesa Premier League season with 1-0 win over Tusker in an entertaining match held at Moi Stadium in Kisumu on Sunday. It was substitute Henry Onyango, who gave Paul Ogai's charges their second win of the season, as he struck the winner nine minutes to time from Kevin Okoth's assist. Ogai thanked his boys for the win, but said that they need to work on their finishing so that they can win by big margins. "Winning away and home is very encouraging and so I must thank my players for that. However, the results shows that we must improve on our finishing so that we score more goals, in the defence we have no problem, "said Ogai. Tusker's assistant coach Charles Okello who stood in for head coach Robert Matano, declined to comment on his side's performance. Stima dominated the early minutes of the match and came close to netting the leading goal just after 11 minutes, when Vincent Odongo sent a dangerous cross in the face of Tusker's goal from the left wing, but his compatriot Kennedy Otieno missed by a few inches. The pressure at Tusker's goal earned the hosts a corner less than a minutes later, but the visitors defence stood tall. As the game progressed, Tusker looked to have found their footing, as they begun making inroads into the hosts' danger area. David Juma went up inside Stima's box in the 12th minute, but his header had no power to pose a threat at Samuel Odhiambo in Stima's goal. The visitors won two successive corner kicks but failed to capitalise on them, before Michael Madoya was ruled offside minutes later. Juma turned well in the 33rd minute at the edge of the box to send a powerful shot with his left foot, but Odhiambo was alert in goal. However, Stima were also lucky on the other end after Juma sent John Kamau inside the box from the left wing, the latter sending the ball to Jackson Macharia who missed the target by a few inches. Tusker were forced to make a halftime change after Erick Ambuya sustained an injury, with Sammy Meja taking his place. Wesley Kemboi twice found himself on the receiving end from Stima's supporters after he failed to give his side the lead from Junior's two successive assist from the left wing. The power men made a double substitution in the 64th minute, Ogai bringing in Baron Oketch and Onyango for Wesley and Erastus Mwaniki respectively. Stima improved in their possession in the second half, Okoth's long range attempt going wide as Mvuyekure saved David Ojuang's 73rd minute free-kick. Their efforts bore fruits eight minutes later when Okoth sent a dangerous cross inside the box to Onyango who beat Mvuyekure with a close range finish to the left.  