Police in Siaya County are investigating Alego Usonga MP Samuel Atandi, following claims by nominated Siaya MCA Winnie Otieno that he hired goons to attack her on Friday night. County Police Commander Ambrose Mwawaka on Saturday said they launched a probe after the member of county assembly filed a report at Siaya Police Station. ARMED YOUTHS Ms Otieno said armed people accosted her as she left Manicaland Hotel in Malanga, Alego, where she attended the annual Kuon Festival hosted by the Siaya Political Forum. “There were four of us in the car when youths emerged from a nearby thicket and stoned our vehicle. We were lucky that they got scared by another car's departure from the hotel. They disappeared into the thicket,” she said. Mr Mwawaka confirmed that the MCA recorded the statement vide OB: 4/29/12/2018. “The OCS is on the matter ...we shall get to its root cause. It is not the first incident we have heard about the MP,” he said. “Sometime back we launched a crackdown on the youth so they disappeared. We are following leads that some of them may be from Ruaraka in Nairobi and that they are hired to cause chaos here.” ATANDI'S RESPONSE Mr Atandi denied the claims when he was reached for comment on Saturday. “Don’t be a busybody. Go ask police. Do not ask me about issues that do not concern me. Ask the investigators,” he said. Ms Otieno, however, claimed that the MP has been has had problems since she switched camp after the August 2017 general election. ODM youth official Charles Onguko claimed Mr Atandi has been displeased with Ms Otieno’s support for Martin Otieno aka Mijesh, who is seeking to unseat him in 2022. “Mijesh seems to be giving him sleepless nights. That is why he is furious,” Mr Onguko said. Ms Otieno was vocal in the run-up to the August 8, 2017 elections in Siaya. Her stage crafts earned her the nomination slot under the Orange Democratic Movement. Siaya Speaker George Okode said, "I urge police to expeditiously handle the matter and ensure the perpetrators are brought to book. Nobody is above the law.   The former boxer has been absorbing punches from several quarters, some of them self-inflicted.