Hi Brenda, Our relationship is strained, mainly because of money. But we are holding on. My wife and I both work but life has not been very kind to us. We live almost pay cheque to pay cheque but we struggle and sacrifice to save for our children’s future. But bills, school fees and all have caused a lot of strain. We both have to do side hustles to make ends meet and save a little. We don’t have time for each other and I also feel bad I can’t provide enough. My wife of seven years and I try to have a little time to ourselves but all these problems sometimes interfere. I pray we get better jobs or better salaries so we can rebuild our lives. We are holding on but we both can see cracks in our marriage. In the meantime, what can we do? We also don’t do outside dates anymore because of money. We do dates in the house but the kids sometimes interfere.  Hey, Money can be a very difficult source of contention in a marriage, as any study will show you. Though this is difficult, there is always a way out, and there are steps that I would advise you both to take to try and make your quality time and your marriage better. You say you do dates in the house, which is nice, but the kids interfere sometimes. Is it possible to drop the kids off at your parents or your in laws so you can have some time to yourselves? I like the idea of your inexpensive dates, and even though this is a hard country to have that in, there is still hope to be found in walking in our parks, or having a picnic at the Arboretum, even with the kids. In terms of your hustle, perhaps it is time to pivot what direction your hustle is going, if it is still not giving you enough to sustain what you need? Perhaps bring in another partner, or explore a different hustle which has better returns. What are the options for promotion where you work now? Are you due for a raise, or a conversation with your boss to figure out how you can save money from your net salary? Discuss your concerns with your wife as well, so that you can chart a path forward, together. *** Do you have a problem to share with Brenda? Please email: lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com   I don’t really mess around with food.