Gor Mahia coach Hassan Oktay could become the first coach to guide the club to the Confederation of African Football (Caf) Champions League group stage if he avoids defeat in Nigeria on Friday. Caf renamed Africa’s first tier club competition, formerly referred to as African Cup of Champions between 1964 and 1996, to the Champions League in 1997. Previously the competition was open to winners of leagues of all Caf affiliated member nations as well as the defending champion of the tournament. The continental body also introduced prize money at this stage with the champion bagging Sh100 million that has since increased to Sh256 million. Teams that reach the group stage take home Sh56 million while quarter-finalists bag Sh66 million. The new format saw the participants play a series of preliminary rounds until the last 16. The eight winners of the last 16 ties were then pooled in two groups of four teams each. However, last year Caf expanded the group stage to four groups of four teams each for a total of 16. The 16 teams are the aggregate winners of the first round. This year Gor broke another record by gracing the modern Caf Confederation Cup group stage after about 33 years. They narrowly missed out on the coveted Champions League group stage after losing 1-0 in the first round to eventual winners Esperance of Tunisia. Again, under the tutelage of Briton Dylan Kerr, K’Ogalo failed to proceed to the quarter-finals of the second tier Africa inter-club competition after finishing third in Group “D” behind Algerian side USM Alger and Rwandese giants Rayon Sports. Out went Kerr last month and he was replaced by Oktay who has led the 17-time Kenyan champions in four matches losing two and winning as many. Oktay made his touchline debut on December 5 in the return leg of the preliminary round against Nyasa Bullets. He guided Gor to the first round by edging out Malawian side Nyasa Bullets 4-3 on post-match penalties after a 1-1 aggregate score in both legs. Gor lost 1-0 in Malawi after winning the first leg with a similar scoreline in Nairobi. The 42-year-old also tasted defeat in his first SportPesa Premier League (SPL) match in charge losing 2-1 to Bandari in Mombasa. However he has masterminded two convincing wins in quick succession; 4-0 against Zoo in the SPL and 3-1 over Lobi Stars in the Champions League. “When I first came, I found their tempo was different from my philosophy but I can see they are getting better everyday,” said Oktay. Friday's return leg in Enugu state stands between Oktay and history. A win or draw of any kind will see Gor pocket a cool Sh56 million by qualifying for the money-spinning group stage. “I am here first to reach the group stage and two, go all the way to the final,” reiterated Oktay who penned a two-year deal on December 10.   The Nigerians netted a crucial away goal through Samuel Mathias.