Families and owners of buildings that were earmarked for demolition can now breathe a sigh of relief after the government suspended demolition of buildings across the country. “It is notified for the general information of the public that the government has forthwith directed the immediate suspension of all demolition of properties in all parts of the country until further notice,” said Head of Public Service Joseph Mr Kinyua on Friday. Mr Kinyua, in the press statement, said further guidance will be issued following consultations with relevant state agencies. The suspension came after the demolition of buildings in Kayole was met with outcry from over 500 families who were left homeless after their houses were flattened by bulldozers. 'INHUMANE DEMOLITIONS' This comes as a section Nairobi Members of Parliament on Friday called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to set up another taskforce comprising of all elected leader in the city to work with the Nairobi regeneration team formed earlier. MPs Benjamin Mwangi (Embakasi Central), Ms Mercy Gakuya (Kasarani) and Mr Charles Njagua (Starehe) accused the government of being insensitive to the plight of families whose houses were demolished in Kayole, Njiru, Umoja, Mihango and Saika. The lawmakers in a press conference at Parliament Buildings said the manner in which the demolitions was done was inhumane and insensitive. 'URBAN RENEWAL' “We support the ongoing urban housing projects in the Big Four agenda but let’s address the current situation with dignity. The houses demolished have been a source of shelter for many people,” said Mr Mwangi. “We see impunity on these evictions. Some people woke up to go to work only to meet goons hired to move their things out of their houses,” said Mr Mwangi. Ms Gakuya said the ongoing urban housing project should be implemented at a pace that does not affect families. SONKO ORDER Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko also ordered for the stop of any further demolition of buildings in the county including those built on disputed parcels of land. The order also includes structures built on road reserves and those sitting on Kenya Power line reserves. Mr Sonko issued the orders on Thursday after a phone call with President Uhuru Kenyatta. He met at City Hall with families whose houses have been demolished recently, including owners of homes demolished in Nyama Villa estate in Kayole. Some of the houses set for demolition are built on land reserved for roads and Kenya Power electricity lines. FESTIVE SEASON “I have today declared that no more buildings will be demolished until after the festive season is over. We cannot make families in Nairobi homeless during the festive season when everyone is expecting us to give them peace and a conducive environment for the holidays,” said Mr Sonko. One of the victims displaced by the demolitions, Mr David Nyagah has accused private developers of hiding behind the courts to displace land owners from their properties where they have stayed for over 20 years. “Governor we are appealing to you to get us a temporary place us we challenge the court order that allowed them to demolish our houses. Please seek the intervention of the President to allow us and our families enjoy the festive season,” said Mr Nyagah. Mr Sonko later toured Kayole area where he forced out bulldozers hired by private developers to bring down houses on the disputed land. He was accompanied by Nairobi County Assembly leader of majority Abdi Guyo and several other ward representatives. ‘HUMANITARIAN GROUNDS’ “I know the courts approved the demolitions but on grounds of humanity we cannot torture our fellow citizens especially during this festive season. This matter should be done in a humane way and in accordance with the law,” the governor said. Meanwhile, the City Hall boss and President Kenyatta are on Friday expected to launch construction of low-cost houses in Pangani. LOW-COST HOUSING The national government is planning to build 500,000 affordable housing units across the country, while the Nairobi County government is set to put up 200,000 of its own. The project is scheduled to run until 2022 and it’s expected to offer low income earners in Nairobi an opportunity to own houses and give informal settlements a facelift.   Nairobi court rules property is a security threat to UN offices.