Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji has gazetted the appointment of Queen's Counsel Khawar Qureshi as the special prosecutor in Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu's case. Mr Haji announced the appointment of Mr Qureshi on Tuesday, saying he picked the London-based professor through single-sourcing after failing to find a suitable candidate through advertisement. He noted that several cases are of great public importance and that it is important to prevent conflict between his office and the Judiciary. PUBLIC PROSECUTORS On Wednesday, Mr Haji also made official the appointment of Naylor Shivachi Mukofu as a public prosecutor for all cases arising under the Anti-Counterfeit Act, 2008. The DPP made the announcements in a gazette notice dated December 5. In it, he announced that he had revoked the appointment of 45 public prosecutors handling different cases. They are as follows: Criminal proceedings under Anti-Counterfeit Act, 2008: Stephen Ochieng Mallowah Stan Musyoka Manthi Hellen Nelly Limang'ura Sammy Arekai Sirich Francis Mwathew Kamau Criminal proceedings under the Kenya Forestry Act, 2005: Appolinary J. Mwandigha John M. Mbatha Nancy W. Maina Stephen B Okayo Wilson M David David K. Mutai Rogers M. Ruriga Patricia M. Mwangi Criminal proceedings under the Kenya Health Act: Suleiman Juma Mwahanjo Amos N. Kilunda James Ojwang Simiyu Zephania Kipruto Chelimo James Ndaranya Wachunga Wilson Endao Chepyegon Naisola Rachel Sillah John Muriuki Githinji Zaphania Chelimo Thomas Nyandigisi Beja Mwalungu Bati Oguta Zaddock Ogayo Henry Onyango Ojwang Vincent Iduri Joseph Akuma Onwonga Nelson Mwangi Mutahi Festus Anaya Gideon Kimuluo Moses Wambusi Wanyonyi Simon Manara Ogao David Kipkorir Chepkwony Fredrick Nanyaga Sikali Stephen Ngumo Mururia Nickson Marara Aminga Julius Shiechenje Allan Wasilwa Barasa Mutinyi Solomon Salia James Kooya Mathew Kare Cheboi Fred Kariuki Sosi Joseph Manyasya Kiwmele Criminal proceedings under the Energy Act Gitonga Murungura   Haji says his appointment will help prevent conflict between the ODPP and the Judiciary.