Officers of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission on Friday arrested a water authority official in Nanyuki for allegedly demanding a Sh317,000 bribe from the treasurer of the Mutitu Water Project. The person, Bernice Munanie Kaleve, is a Nanyuki-baased commercial officer of the Water Resources Management Authority (Warma). ARREST PLAN The EACC's central region manager, Charles Rasugu, said Ms Kaleve asked for the bribe so as to review the project’s water bill downwards. Mr Rasugu said she was apprehended in the evening after receiving a down payment of Sh75,000, as part of their plan for her arrest. He said the treasurer refused to give the bribe and reported the matter to the commission so a plan was hatched. “She had accepted and received a benefit of Sh75,000 after negotiations so as to review the water meter bill for the project," he said. Ms Kaleve was taken to Nanyuki Police Station and will be charged with abuse of office and bribery after the probe is completed. The project is in Naurutia village along Nyeri-Nyahururu road in Kieni, Nyeri County. GRAFT RAMPANT Mr Rasugu noted that the offence of bribery among public officers is rampant but said the commission is stemming the vice. He cited the case of a clerical officer at the Nanyuki Law Courts, who was arrested by the EACC's officers for receiving Sh10,000 from suspects for bond processing. The commission said Mr James Kimathi demanded and received the bribe in order to expedite verification of a title deed that the suspects wanted to use to secure their release on bond. In Murang’a, a member of the lands board in Kigumo Sub-county was accused of collecting at least Sh107,000 in bribes. Naomi Wanjiku, the EACC said, was arrested for soliciting and receiving Sh20,000 in bribes on behalf of the seven board members to facilitate the approval of the subdivision of land. The case files are undergoing perusal at the Office of Director of Public Prosecutions.   Lawrence Mutembei allegedly received Sh40, 000 bribe from a supplier in order to pre-qualify him.