Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has instructed Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet to intensify surveillance on the roads to improve safety during the festive season. Dr Matiang’i told Mr Boinnet to do whatever it takes to ensure that there are no casualties related to road crashes. “If detaining a bus at a police station for the whole night is what will ensure that travellers get to their destinations safe, then do so. Do whatever it takes to ensure we have no loss of lives on our roads this festive season,” Dr Matiang’i said. He was speaking during the launch of the National Police Service Week at the Railways Club in Nairobi. The three-day event is organised by law enforcement officers to provide them with a forum to interact with the public. POLICING Dr Matiang’i said they have decided to make the National Police Week an annual event, so it will be incorporated into the government’s calendar of events. “Interaction between the law enforcement agencies and the public will reduce the fear the public has towards the police, as well as alleviate the ill feelings the public and the police appear to harbour towards each other," Mr Boinnet said. He said the idea of holding the interactive forum was born of the need to inform the public about what police work entails and, thereby, enhance understanding between them and ordinary people. “This decision was reached based on our police reforms journey, so we set aside these days to interact with the public as we look to build our national police force to world-class standards,” the police boss said. BLAME Dr Matiang'i concurred, noting that people are sometimes quick to castigate police action based on their own viewpoints, without considering the police's perspective. “Sometimes when people condemn the police for some of the actions they take, they do so from the viewpoint of a people who do not understand why these actions were taken,” he said. The launch of the police service week was also attended by Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho and Deputy Inspector-General of Police in charge of the Administration Police, Mr Noor Yarow Gabow, as well as a number of officers from other law enforcement agencies.  