Last Monday morning, the breaking news was that a gunman on a motorcycle had blocked the car of Rev Fr John Njoroge Muhia (no relation) near Kinoo, Kiambu County, shot through the windscreen, proceeded to snatch the Sunday collection the priest was delivering to the bank, and fled. Good Samaritans rushed the injured priest to hospital where he was pronounced dead. The autopsy showed that he had been shot through the heart. The killing of any human being, be it wanton or in the course of a robbery by brigands or in cold blood, is tragic and must be condemned. This death brings back sad memories of the murder of several priests in the country. In 2003 Fr Martin Macharia, a cheerful priest posted at St Francis Xavier Parklands, was shot dead and his car stolen around the Zimmerman area of Nairobi. In the aftermath of the 2007 elections, a crowd forced Fr Michael Kamau Ithondeka of Nakuru Diocese out of his car on the Eldama Ravine road. After a few questions, they rained a hail of rocks and stones on him, killing him on the spot. Last month, Fr Cosmas Omboto Ondari, a Kenya citizen belonging to the Mill Hill Society and a missionary in Cameroon was gunned down within the precincts of his Church as he ministered to his parishioners. After training at St Augustine Seminary, Bungoma, and later in St Matthias Mulumba Seminary Tindinyo, Fr John Njoroge Muhia was ordained priest by Maurice Cardinal Otunga in 1994. He served several parishes in Kiambu and Nairobi counties including St Joseph Kereita, St Francis Xavier Parklands, St Joseph’s Limuru, St Teresa’s Eastleigh and lately St Peter’s Kinoo. His first appointment was at Kereita in the mid-90s, a parish I also helped part-time when I lectured at the Catholic University of Eastern Africa. Many parishioners in Kereita remember him fondly because of his dedication, strong work ethic and unassuming nature. As a young priest, he was a big hit with the youth. Many people, including those he mentored in his earlier years in the Limuru Deanery, are obviously saddened by his sudden death. Several have sent messages to the Archdiocese of Nairobi recalling with nostalgia the disciplined, helpful and happy retreats he gave them. Fr Njoroge Muhia has earned the reputation of a good marriage counsellor not only during preparations for weddings but also thereafter. I recall a couple whose marriage he witnessed at Limuru in 1995 later inviting him to lead at the Mass celebrating their 10th anniversary and thanking him publicly for “walking” with them as their counsellor for a decade. Fr Lawrence Njoroge, a priest of the Archdiocese of Nairobi, is Professor of Development Studies and Ethics at JKUAT where he serves as Catholic Chaplain. Lnjoroge@ihrd.jkuat.ac.ke   Gang on motorcycles obstructs Fr Njoroge, shoot and kill him then escapes with Sunday offerings.