A number of students selected to join Form One in January might miss the chance after it emerged that some schools are demanding they clear fee arrears before they get their KCPE certificates. The students are expected to start reporting to their selected secondary schools from January 7 to 11. The Nation has established that parents are being asked to clear fee balances for the August — November term. The monies are for tuition, development, activity, exam, and Parents Teachers Association. RESULT SLIPS Without that, students will not get KCPE result slips, admission letters and school leaving certificates. Schools in Nairobi are demanding between Sh4,000 and Sh6,000. On Monday, Baraka Primary School parents in Buru Buru, Nairobi, protested at the institution after they were asked to clear fee arrears. The school denied over 15 parents the documents that would enable their children get bursaries. Mr Richard Angole said the school demanded he clears Sh4,800 before he can be given result slip and admission letter. Another parent, Mr Martin Makumbi, said he was also asked to pay a similar amount. Nation was unable to get a comment from the school administration. BURSARIES Nominated MCA Leah Mumo said she had received several cases from parents from different schools in the city who had visited her office seeking bursaries. “Before we issue bursaries, parents must provide KCPE result slips, Form One admission letters with the fee structure, however many parents are unable to access these documents,” she said. A number of parents said they cannot speak about the fee issue for fear that their children would be victimised. “I still have children in the school. I fear the head teacher will victimise my children or write a bad report in their leaving certificate,” said a parent who didn’t want to be mentioned. HOLIDAY TUITION The Nation has established that schools have been holding tuitions over the weekend and during the April and August holiday despite government’s directive warning against such sessions. In April, several schools in Nyandarua, Nakuru, and Narok held tuition during the holiday. These are some of the monies parents are being asked to pay. Kenya Parents Association boss Nicholas Maiyo asked parents not to pay any school fees being demanded by schools to enable them access their children’s documents. “The government has been clear on tuition fees and no public school should demand fees from parents,” said Mr Maiyo. The Kenya Primary School Heads Association chairman Shem Ndolo Tuesday told the Nation he had not received any complaints of head teachers demanding fees from parents.  