Deputy President (DP) William Ruto has fired a warning shot to his opponents, saying that he will deal with anyone who is out to scuttle the government's development agenda in wake of criticism of how he has handled the long-running maize scandal. While speaking on Saturday at Kathaka village in Kirinyaga County where he officially opened Ndia Technical Training Institute, DP Ruto said he would not watch as a section of leaders drag the country behind with unnecessary politicking. “I will not allow anyone to halt the President’s projects and if you try to stop the government’s work, I will deal with you. Jubilee’s priority is construction of roads and ensuing electricity connection, but other things will follow at the right time,” he said. Mr Ruto has been under fire from some Rift Valley MPs who alleged that he was behind the maize scandal which saw the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) pay brokers millions of shillings at the expense of ordinary farmers. The DP has denied those claims and counter-accused his critics of attempting to sabotage the government’s development agenda. “If the promises we made as a Jubilee government are not fulfilled, I will be the first person to be put to task because I am the one who took oath to assist the President. These other people did not take that oath, so let them give me time to work,” he said. TECHNICAL SKILLS The government, he said, has allocated Sh30, 000 bursary for every student who will join the technical institutions from September in a bid to lure more youth to take up skill-based courses. Mr Ruto was accompanied by Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru, Ndia MP George Kariuki, his Mathira counterpart Rigathi Gachagua, Senate Deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki and several other MPs.Ms Waiguru said that the county will also disburse bursaries to college students to encourage them to take up jobs that require technical skills. “The youth need to know the importance of these technical institutes because some are insisting on going to the university. They need to realise that so many jobs are arising from the implementation of Big Four agenda,” she said. Mr Ruto stressed on the growing demand for technical skills as youth shun polytechnics despite high levels of unemployment. “Every student who enrols at the institution will receive bursary whether from a rich or poor family. We need their skills in the construction industry,” he said. He further encouraged youths to register for short courses at the technical training colleges, promising that the numerous jobs will be available with the implementation of the housing agenda.Mr Ruto announced that Kirinyaga County will receive 3,000 housing units under the affordable housing programme being rolled out across the country. “To construct the 3,000 houses in Kirinyaga, we need over 15,000 masons, plumbers, artisans, carpenters and other skilled people to work at the sites,” he said.   Keter, Kutuny and Tiren say DP should say what he knows about maize and fertiliser scams.