Sixteen football teams from Murang’a County will participate in Football Kenya Federation (FKF) league after years of being locked for lack of funds. This was after the Irungu Nyakera Foundation came to the teams’ rescue and sponsored them to participate in the FKF league which is slated to start in January 2019. According to Mr James Kamau, the Aberdare region FKF secretary-general, the teams have not been participating in the federation league as they could not raise fees for affiliation, referees and transport. He said football in Murang’a County has been stagnating due to lack of financial support and exposure. MAJOR BOOST Speaking at Golden Palm Hotel in Kenol town during the signing of a memorandum of understanding with the foundation, Mr Kamau said the move to sponsor the teams is a major boost. He said they will select the best team that could even play with the national teams in future. “Over the years, Murang’a teams have not been taking part in the region’s FKF league and the county has lagged behind in the Abendare region. However, the sponsorship is a major breakthrough to us,” he said. The teams’ referees and coaches will also be trained by the FKF assistant director of training, Mr David Ouma, and will be given reference letters and certificates from the federation to enable them oversee the games for other tournaments including in secondary and primary schools. EQUIP YOUTH On his part, the foundation’s patron Mr Irungu Nyakera said they decided to equip the youth so that they may later earn from playing football. He said each sub-county will produce two teams to play in the county FKF league while four others will be sponsored to play at the regional level. Mr Nyakera called on the youth to start seeing games as a career which can bring food to their table and enable them support their families. “We are sponsoring the youth, who are mostly misused by politicians during campaigns with tournaments that comes and go. But sponsoring them to participate in structured leagues will help them unlock the potential in them,” he added. My Nyakera is the former Planning principal secretary.  