Lawyer Tom Ojienda has been arrested by officers from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) and Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) over professional services he offered to Mumias Sugar Company and the fees he received. His lawyer Nelson Havi, in his Twitter handle, wrote: "It is easy to see through the ploy by the DCI and the DPP in arresting Professor Tom Ojienda on a Friday afternoon; hold him over the weekend; procure warrants to search his homes and offices in his absence; and violate his constitutional rights in the process. Justice on trial!" Mr Havi said Prof Ojienda was arrested alongside his colleague Peter Wanyama and are being held at DCI headquarters in Kiambu. LSK POLLS He slammed the DCI and the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions for conducting arrests on Friday when "the court is on vacation", hence impossible for suspects to seek reprieve. Further, he said there are individuals intent on interfering with the Law Society of Kenya male member representative to the Judicial Service Commission elections, in which Prof Ojienda is a contender. "A team of advocates is assembled at the DCI headquarters with a view to ensuring Prof Ojienda is released on cash bail, and ascertaining the scope of enquiry that is being undertaken by the officers," he said. MUMIAS The matter came to the fore after a 2015 report by audit firm KPMG, which showed that the company was exposed to financial losses because its managers did not follow due process in reaching crucial decisions. The report accused Mr Peter Kebati, who had succeeded Dr Evans Kidero as managing director, of single sourcing legal services from Prof Ojienda. The lawyer's law firm is said to have received Sh7 million to represent the company on a trademark infringement suit in 2013. The case involved Option Two Limited, which Mumias Sugar said was selling sugar wrapped in packages similar to its own.   The taxation cases resulting from the litigation of various cases have gone undefended.