A lobby group in South Nyanza has asked President Kenyatta to dissolve Homa Bay County government on claims of corruption and non-performance. Bunge la Wenye Nchi team leader Walter Opiyo said the devolved unit had a failed government. The lobby group includes Mr Peter Ouma Muga, Ms Joyce Awuor, Mr Evance Ogola, Ms Laura Akinyi, Mr Dan Onyango, Mr Evance Otieno and Mr Anderson Ojwang’. In a signed petition to President Kenyatta dated December 12, the group says the 2017-2018 Auditor-General’s report supports their position. FINANCIAL IRREGULARITIES They cited a number of financial irregularities by the administration of Governor Cyprian Awiti, including Sh132 million spent on the purchase of a non-existent Cotton Processing Plant at Kendu-Bay, in Rachuonyo North Sub-County. According to Auditor-General Edward Ouko’s report, the machine and the factory cited do not exist. Efforts to have Mr Awiti, and his deputy, Mr Hamilton Orata comment on the lobby group’s petition to have Homa Bay County dissolved were futile as their phones went unanswered. CREATE CONFUSION However, the communications director at the governor’s office, Mr Maurice Aluoch, dismissed the petition as meant to create confusion among residents. He said the petition was aimed at influencing the outcome of the Supreme Court ruling on the gubernatorial petition. “I can’t say much, but the group has an ill motive of tainting the name of the county so that our opponents can capitalise on it after the apex court ruling. They want to use fake information to crucify the government,” he said. Mr Aluoch said the government will fight by all means to block the suspension attempt. COURT RULING “Counties like Makueni tried the same formula to throw out the government, but it never saw the light of day. Homa Bay will not be the first county to be dissolved by the President,” he said. But Mr Opiyo, who is leading the lobby group, said: “We have seen the runaway plunder of public resources in Homa Bay County led by public servants and politicians in blatant disregard of laws and regulations. We must stop this at all costs.” Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang’ has advised the group to await the Supreme Court ruling on the tussle between former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga and Mr Awiti.   Having every Kenyan on medical insurance does not translate to universal health coverage