Three top Jubilee officials on Friday completed a weeklong visit to South Africa after an invitation by the country’s ruling African National Congress (ANC) party. Jubilee Vice Chairman David Murathe, Secretary-General Raphael Tuju and Executive Director James Waweru joined officials of 200 other parties from across the world who had been invited by ANC. The meeting was part of efforts by four of the emerging powerful economies Brics (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) to reach out to other nations. Dubbed “Political Party Plus Dialogue”, the meeting's objectives include to build bridges between Brics and other nations and cultures. It also aims at forging cooperation in areas of development and multilateralism, while strengthening peace and stability. And finally to encourage collaboration for inclusive growth and prosperity in the Fourth Industrial Revolution. ECONOMY Mr Murathe said Jubilee used the opportunity to push for Kenya's inclusion into Brics. “We hope to add a 'K' to the Brics to form BRICKS. The (March 9) handshake has addressed all the concerns about harmony in the continent. That two warring factions can come together to foster peace and tranquillity for the sake of Wanjiku and development,” he said. Fighting for Kenya's inclusion into Brics may be a tall order since the country's economic strength pales compared to the five states whose unity is based on their strong economies. In its presentation done by Mr Tuju, Jubilee said Kenya has moved from the shadow of 2017 election stalemate, and with the Building Bridges initiative Kenya is now headed to become a stable and prosperous democracy. PROGRESS Mr Tuju said Kenya has emerged as a global player by hosting over 50 heads of state and has also become a financial hub. “Kenya has a developed financial system, open and robust markets and already significantly ahead besides a massive economic growth buoyed by prospects of lower power costs, commodities and crude sales in the short and long term. China is developing a currency centre in Nairobi for the Yuan for easy conversion of forex,” he said. He also cited Kenya’s oil discoveries in recent years and its role in guaranteeing regional security as added advantages. The meeting took place in Pretoria from December 4 to 6, and came after South Africa hosted Brics Summit in Johannesburg from July 25 to 27. COOPERATION It is envisaged that the Brics Political Parties Plus Dialogue will result in focused discussions and practical strategies and tactics developed for implementation. "The ANC looks forward to hosting fraternal Brics political parties and friendly dialogue partners,” a concept note for the meeting said. Jubilee has been reaching out to two of the world's most established political parties — ANC and Chinas Communist party. It has also reached out to Communist party of Cuba. In January, Jubilee leader President Uhuru Kenyatta made a three-day tour of South Africa where he attended the 106th birthday party of ANC at a stadium in the port-city of East London.   President said he regrets the violent and divisive nature of Kenyan politics and elections.