Sofapaka started their 2018/2019 SportPesa Premier League (SPL) season on a winning note edging Mount Kenya United 2-1 at Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos on Sunday. John Avire broke the deadlock after 42 minutes with a diving header off Titus Achesa’s weighted cross with Mount Kenya United defenders beaten. The youthful forward however did not celebrate scoring against a side he featured for in the 2018 season before crossing over alongside Egyptian-born American coach Medo Melis. Stephen Waruru doubled the scores from the spot on 53 minutes after substitute Kepha Aswani was brought down in the box by Amani Kyata. Kyata redeemed himself with a consolation through a penalty goal in the 75th minute. Mount Kenya patron Moses Kuria and chairman Francis Mureithi arrived at the stadium on a private chopper to cheer their boys. Both sides launched early raids but none was fruitful. Veteran midfielder Moses Odhiambo lofted in a cross on 26 minutes that troubled Sofapaka back line before goalkeeper Richard Aimo cleared the danger. At the half hour mark, Avire beat his marker for pace to latch onto a through ball and round goalkeeper Phillip Odhiambo but defender Frank Bala made a timely block to deny him. Cliff Kasuti, who was deployed as a wingback, Titus Achesa, Tom Adwar, Avire and shot-stopper Richard Aimo were handed their debut in Sofapaka jersey after joining the team last month. On 75 minutes, Mount Kenya, who had pushed men upfront in search of a consolation won a penalty after Boniface Mukhekhe was fouled inside the area by Humphrey Okoti forcing referee Agnetta Itubo to point to the spot. Amani Kyata, culpable for Sofapaka’s second goal, sent Aimo the wrong side to half the deficit. Mount Kenya United were dealt an injury blow on 86 minutes after goalkeeper Phillip Odhiambo suffered a concussion after landing awkwardly from an aerial challenge. With all the three substitutions exhausted captain John Njoroge was forced to wear the gloves and stand in between the sticks for the remaining minutes.  