A section of leaders from Kitui County have urged Ukambani residents to unconditionally rally behind Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka in bid to improve his chances of succeeding President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022. Speaking at the county’s first-ever annual cultural event at Nguni, Kitui Senator Enock Wambua warned Kalonzo’s rivals that they risk being sent to political oblivion should they refuse to support the Wiper leader’s dalliance with President Kenyatta. The former vice president publicly said he will be Mr Kenyatta’s errand boy during his father’s burial last month in Mwingi, a comment that elicited heated reactions from many of his close associates but that led to his new job in the South Sudan peace commission. Senator Wambua warned that anyone thought to undermine Kalonzo in the region will be treated as an enemy whose political ambitions should be crushed. “Wiper is strong and will work with Jubilee Party to achieve the Big Four agenda and Kalonzo should be accorded respect as we prepare him for the presidency come 2022,” said Mr Wambua. CENTRAL SUPPORT Mwingi Central MP Gideon Mulyungi also urged the region to support Kalonzo’s unity with the government and to seek support from Central Kenya where Mr Kenyatta, who is serving his last term, is immensely popular. Some of those perceived as Kalonzo's rivals include Machakos County Governor Alfred Mutua who has been nursing presidential ambitions since his first term. While not yet a fully-fledged movement, a wave of support online has sprung up for Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana whose recent development initiatives have endeared him to many Kenyans across the country. When Kalonzo addressed the public, he supported the remarks made by his Wiper lieutenants but warned it was still too early to talk about 2022 presidential race even though potential contenders such as the Deputy President William Ruto have been crisscrossing the country, doling up cash in church fundraisers and building grassroots movements for their campaigns.   Deputy President William Ruto accuses his opponents of bid to sabotage government development agenda.