Harambee Stars coach Sebastien Migne has told Nation Sport he has not been paid his salary for the last three months. Even as the Kenyan football fraternity basks in the glory of breaking an almost 15-year jinx to qualify for next year’s Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon), all is not rosy with the Frenchman. The 43-year-old Kenya coach has served the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) with a “pay up or I quit” notice due to expire on November 19. Kenya confirmed their ticket to the biennial continental football showpiece recently following the disqualification of Group “F” opponents Sierra Leone, currently banned by world football governing body, Fifa, due to government interference. Kenya are thus guaranteed of a top two finish with one round of qualifying matches left. Stars play away to Ghana on March. “I’ve not received my salary for the past three months,” said Migne. “I am yet to receive payment of my accommodation but whenever I read the newspaper, everyone is talking of winning Afcon,” he added. “I don’t speak about victory. The first stage is bringing all stakeholders on board. If you know little about football, it’s impossible for Kenya to think of winning now. Kenya has only won one game at the final tournament since the beginning of this kind of competition then you think you can win today?” FKF media chief Barry Otieno confirmed they owed Migne three months salary. “We are waiting for money from the sports ministry to pay him,” said Otieno. Migne, who penned a three-year contract with FKF in May, reportedly, earns Sh1.5 million per month. His compatriot Nicholas Bourriquet is assistant and Michael Igendia the video analyst. Sports Principal Secretary Peter Kaberia said: “He (Sebastien Migne) is paid by FKF whom we send money for that purpose. We will send them (the money) very soon.” This is the second time in about three months the former Congo Brazzaville tactician has demanded his pay despite delivering on the pitch. He is unbeaten in three Afcon qualifier matches with Kenya: two wins and a draw. Overall, he has notched six wins, three defeats and a draw in 10 games since he replaced Belgian Paul Put in May. Last week, federation president Nick Mwendwa said they needed Sh200m to start earnest preparations for the Nations Cup with a three-week training camp in France in thee works.  