Police have unearthed a criminal organisation that produces forged degree certificates in Eldoret, Uasin Gishu County, and arrested four suspects. They said affected institutions include Moi, Mount Kenya and University of Eldoret. Others are Eldoret National Polytechnic and Olesos Technical Training institute whose diploma certificates the group had been forging. CYBER OPERATION The suspects are four men who run a cyber cafe in Eldoret town. They are believed to have established close links with unscrupulous employees at the affected institutions. Their racketeering involves mass production of fake degree and diploma certificates, using logos of the affected institutions, and sale to interested parties at exorbitant prices. Eldoret South police boss William Abduba said the suspects were arrested at Langas estate following concern by employers in parts of western Kenya about job seekers presenting fake documents. “The arrests were as a result of investigations following tips from some employers and members of the public on the circulation of fake degree and diploma certificates,” Mr Abduba said on Wednesday. The Kerio Development Authority (KVDA) recently terminated the services of employees found to have used fake certificates from Moi University to secure employment and promotions. In March, about 132 people were apprehended after they were found with fake admission letters at the Moi Barracks Recruits Training College in Eldoret. OTHER FINDINGS Mr Abduba said the suspects were also found with forged certificates of the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education and Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education examinations. Detectives also found certificates of good conduct that were replicas of those issued by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations. They seized computers and other machines used in the production of the certificates. “Multi-state agencies will be involved in evaluating the legitimacy of the certificates before preferring charges against the suspects,” Mr Abduba said, adding they were taken to Langas Police Station and will be arraigned on Thursday. “We have stretched our investigations to establish whether some of our officers are involved in the scam."   It’s high time employers came up with a balanced approach of promoting staff.