There are no half measures at Olarro Conservancy. Not in the magnificence of the lodges or the in the painstaking measures taken to conserve the wildlife in the expansive 21,000 acres. We leave Narok town a few minutes to midday and on our way to the lodge with Anthony, a friendly and thoroughly knowledgeable driver from Olarro.   We are lucky that it’s a Thursday, the cow market day, so we stop for a few minutes to watch the market intrigues. As if on cue and much to our delight, four handsome morans pass by our vehicle. We stop them to say hello. They smile shyly when a colleague compliments them on their looks and attire. BUMPY BUT WORTHY RIDE The drive to Olarro from Narok is bumpy and dusty. So dusty, in fact, that one can feel the dust lining their teeth if they dare speak while in the car. But the wild animals scurrying along on the road as we drive along and the breathtakingly beautiful Olarro Lodge upon arrival more than make up for the ride.   The meticulous effort put in the interior decor of the rooms — a warm and delightful mixture of modern and traditional accessories — gives me a sudden urge to go back home and redo my whole house. I spend some time quizzing the lodge manager on the sources of the decor items: Bali, Thailand, Tanzania, Kenya are among the counties the décor was sought from.   The lodge offers babysitting services too, to parents who want some time to themselves while on holiday. As a mother of a feisty four-year-old, this is music to my ears. But the beauty and luxury of the rooms does not even come close to the exhilarating experience of the private safari that we embark on at 4pm. Guests also have the option of a night and early morning game drives. The more adventurous guests can use quad bikes.   The boisterous William Hofmeyr the conservancy's general manager, graciously offers to drive us and regales us with tales of life at Olarra and fun facts about wildlife during the game drive. SPEAKS 'ANIMAL' Hofmeyr assures us that “animal” is one of the many languages he speaks and true to his word, we spot a cheetah and her cubs and he proves it.  Hofmeyr makes a sound that sparks the interest of the cheetah as it perks its ears. We have driven close enough to it to see its eyes widen slightly and its back straighten.   I’ve gone for game drives before and seen cheetahs as well but the thrill of being so close to one and having someone “communicate” with them as I watched, was an other-worldly experience. If you enjoy being at the front seat, and being so close to wild animals that you can hear them breathe, then Olarro will exceed your expectations.   IMMERSIVE TOURISM Hofmeyr, who is also an honorary Kenya Wildlife Services (KWS) warden, refers to the experiences they offer to guests at Olarro as immersive tourism. “We incorporate our guests on patrols. It helps them experience what the rangers do as they can come and watch us,” he says. But the patrols can be hazardous at times for the rangers. Hofmeyr once broke his ribs while catering to an injured elephant. “Rangers put their lives on the line every day.”   It's not just cheetahs that Olarro prides itself in. We also spot zebras, jackals, elephants, bush babies,topis, porcupines, wildebeests, aardvarks, bush babies, white tail mongooses, lions and hyenas. The conservancy uses the Wild Application to mitigate human-wildlife conflicts. It’s an innovative tool that helps collect and analyse data that’s related to wildlife from the field.   The movements of the vulnerable animals are tracked through this. FEWER CASES OF POACHING There have been fewer cases of poaching as a result, according to Hofmeyr. But away from luxury lodges and thrilling private safaris, the conservancy also gives back to the community. Not just by leasing their land from them but also by offering interest-free loans, jobs (especially to former illegal herders) and through projects such as the Ngoswani community water project. The latter saves the women from walking a distance of up to 40km to fetch water.   Little wonder then, that the villagers refer to Hofmeyr as baba. A term of endearment by any standards. Olarra’s beauty and uniqueness rests in its unbridled efforts to offer the best of both worlds to its guests. *** HOW TO GET THERE By road The drive from Nairobi to Olarro takes 4 hours, approximately. You will need a Four Wheel Drive from Narok Town as the road is still under construction. By air Chartered: From Nairobi’s Wilson airport, take a 50-minute charter or scheduled flight to Siana airstrip, where you will be met by one of our private drivers who will take you on to Olarro. Helicopter: The helicopter journey departs from Nairobi and takes you directly to our helipads at Olarro Lodge. Visit their website for more details.       There are no half measures at Olarro Conservancy.