A Standard Eight dropout, who works as a mechanic in Kericho County, never dreamt of owning a car but ended up making his own. Mr Calvins Odhiambo, a 20-year-old who repairs motorcycles at KCC area in Kericho town, now drives a "Jeep", the name he gave the car he created using scrap metal. "MIRACLE" Mr Odhiambo's colleagues describe his creation as a miracle as they don't understand how he managed to coordinate all the crucial parts, such as the engine, the steering wheel and the gears. The vehicle has a 150cc motorcycle engine and is four-wheeled but smaller than a tuk-tuk. Its reverse gear and the other five perform just their specific roles and in the bonnet is the engine of his Kingbird motorcycle. With his daily wages, the mechanic bought other requirements in bits and eventually ended up with a fuel gauge, head lights, wiring, indicators and other parts. "It all started as a joke. I collected scrap metal and started making the skeleton of the car. Some said my efforts would not amount to anything but here I am. It took me three months to complete it," he says. He adds: "I realised I was talented when I was young. My schoolmates would report me to teachers for playing with items during classes ... my innovativeness was manifesting itself." NO TRAINING Mr Odhiambo's parents are tailors with five other children. He is the first born. He wanted to be an engineer but could not proceed to secondary school for lack of fees so he ended up at the garage, where he was trained by experienced people. While the car he created shines light on the achievement of his dream, he still cannot afford to advance his skills at a learning institution. He also does not know where to start, where the manufacturing of cars is concerned. "I lack money to come up with something of higher quality. For this one to run, I had to work extra hard to earn more. If I had better training, I would have come up with something bigger and better," he says. NO SALE Mr Odhiambo could make at least Sh300,000 from the sale of his 'Jeep' but this is not in his plan. He drives it to and from work and says police officers have not flagged him for lacking permits and insurance. The mechanic still fine-tunes parts of his creating such as the fuel gauge. "I have driven it from town to Brooke and Kapsoit. I drive it home every day. No police officer has stopped me," he says and claims the car has reached a top speed of 140 kilometers per hour.   This is to ease congestion in various Container Freight Stations where the car have been detained for the last two months.