Calls for justice took centre stage on Saturday at the burial of Leeds university student Carilton David Maina, who was shot dead by police in Laini Saba, Kibra, on December 21. At the ceremony whose guests included his schoolmates, Kibra youths and human rights activists, speakers asked the government to quicken investigations and arrest the officers in question. ACTIVISM Mr Maina, 22, was shot dead last week while heading home from a football game, a death that sparked furor from the public and lobby groups. Mr Kenny Prince from England, where Mr Maina studied, asked local and international rights defenders to work together and ensure trigger-happy police officers are punished. Mr Prince, who said knew Mr Maina while in both Kenya and England, eulogised him as humble, polite and determined. “I cannot imagine that Carilton was killed on accusations that he harassed locals. It is untrue ... I call on Kenyan and international human rights lobby groups to ensure justice is served," he told mourners at Kanorero Village in Kangema Constituency, Murang'a County. "We have lost an industrious and determined fellow who was gifted in education and sports. FUROR Representatives from Amnesty International and other groups faulted President Uhuru Kenyatta and Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i for not addressing the case. They noted that action was quickly taken against the Ambira High School boys who insulted Dr Matiang'i and his education counterpart Amina Mohamed. Raphael Obwonya, a representative of the United Nations, said, "The government should encourage students to learn so as to end the crime in this country. The president and Mr Matiang’i have remained mum on the issue despite rushing to arrest the indisciplined students. No police officer has been arrested in connection to his death ... this is a worrying trend." Hosea Karanja, a priest of the Presbyterian Church of East Africa, told the mourners, “Where is your MP, Nairobi senator and even the governor? The death of Carilton should serve as a lesson to you - that you should never be used by politicians during campaigns. Give them a wide berth." PROFILE Mr Maina joined Maseno School in 2010 and held several positions including that of student leader. He was a member of the football team and the Innovate Kenya club, and won an East African Community essay writing competition. Mr Maina won a scholarship to Brookhouse School, where he successfully completed his introductory course, that was in collaboration with the NCUK International Foundation. He wrote his Kenya Certificate of Secondary School examinations in 2013 and scored an A, which saw him admitted at the University of Nairobi, where he studied actuarial science. He then secured a slot at University of Leeds in West Yorkshire, England, in 2016 to pursue a course in electronics and communication. Speakers at the funeral also eulogised him as a loving, polite and peace-loving person.   Carilton David Maina, 23, was shot dead by police officers in Laini Saba.