A short while back, we had a visitor in Nairobi by the name Richard Quest, a television journalist with CNN. He is best known for his programme on trade matters, “Quest means business”. He also has other activities particularly on matters to do with travelling around the world and reporting on the various cultures of the places he visits. My interest in this regard is the documentary that emerged from his visit to Nairobi. If it is anything to go by, whoever came up with the idea of Mr Quest coming to Nairobi had a brilliant idea. The documentary brings out a truly good story in favour of our tourism aspirations. It covers several features of Nairobi that could provoke those people out there to want to visit and see for themselves. BLUE ECONOMY It is a pity that Quest could not be here a little longer to be able to include many more features from around the country in the documentary. Getting that journalist over here and the subsequent production of that documentary about Nairobi was definitely spot on with regard to where Kenya should be going to be part of the global economy. One other event that has happened in recent times that shows that Kenya is heading somewhere is the sustainable blue economy conference that took place in the first three days of last week. Several Heads of State, business people, scholars and other categories of people converged here on our capital for the conference. The various activities that formed part of the conference were happening in various venues around the city and our university had been chosen to host at least three aspects. The scientific, civil society and diaspora components of the conference were all happening here and it was a great experience for the university community. UON A lot of good things are happening in our university, particularly to do with the attitude of our students and so the atmosphere was just right for the conference. I do know that there are people out there who are dedicated to saying all manner of negative things about this institution every other day, but from the look of things, they themselves know they are telling lies. If they were not they would like to use what is considered as the mainline media — that can be held to account — and not an alternative media outlet. Where I come from they say that “the eyes of the frogs in the river do not prevent the cows from drinking the water.” There is no way that the Kenya government would have allowed parts of the conference to take place in our university if what some of those people say was true. Fr Wamugunda is the dean of students and a lecturer of sociology at the University of Nairobi. wamugundaw@uonbi.ac.ke  