Welcome back to the K’Ogalo corner. Given we are already in the Christmas mood, I think it will not be very fine to go hard on issues Gor Mahia, but it is important to address salient issues at this earliest opportunity before matters get out of hand. We started our defence of the SportPesa Premier League title on Saturday and evidently, things did not work out our way because we lost to Bandari. But it is not so much about the loss, it is about the quality we have in the team and if it will lift us to the 18th title. Looking at the squad we have had in the last two seasons and what we have now, I have all reasons to fear for our team. We have already lost to Kariobangi Sharks in the Super Cup, survived a scare in our Caf Champions League preliminary round against Nyasa Bullets of Malawi who we only defeated on post match penalties and lost to Bandari. In all those games we have scored only twice. We must appreciate the fact that we lost quality players last season. We are yet to replace Meddie Kagere upfront while we are also lacking the kind of player in Godfrey Walusimbi, who also left. Now we have allowed Karim Nzigiyimana to leave and as things are, Francis Kahata is also on his way out. To add salt to injury, our coach Dylan Kerr who guided us to two league title also left and his replacement Hassan Oktay is yet to understand his players well, seemingly. I do not want to be a pessimist, but to be honest, we will not have a very rosy season. My take is we will have to dig deep to retain the league title. Looking at our opponents, I am picking Bandari, Tusker and Kariobangi Sharks to give us the challenge for the title race. But our bad start should not be misconstrued to mean that it’s all gloom, not at all. I think it’s a mere wake up call to the entire team to pull themselves up and show the real Mahia spirit. Remember in 2014 we won the league title with little quality and no sponsor. We can still go all the way and win the league title. To all K’Ogalo followers, this is the time to rally behind the team.  