“Twende. Huku hawana discounts (Let's go. There are no discounts here),” a woman tells her partner at a clothes stall in the city centre. To attract a large number of shoppers during the festive season, supermarkets and shops have reduced the prices of many items and services. Many others are going big on give-aways. Having taken note of the trend, Ms Banice Nyakio, a teacher in Thika, only buys electronics during the Christmas and New Year festivities. “I started saving for a gas cooker at the beginning of the year. It was going for Sh28,000 then, but I got one for Sh22,000 last week. And it came with a free pipe,” Ms Nyakio said. The products being sold at discounted prices include food, clothes, shoes, alcohol and beverages, electronics and back-to-school items. While many hotels, particularly in the Coast, have doubled or even tripled their rates due to the high number of visitors, a good number of entertainment joints in the city have reduced the price of alcohol and food. Tribeka Lounge, a club at the junction of Kimathi and Banda streets in the city centre, is selling Moët champagne at Sh5,000, down from Sh9,000. FRIED GOAT MEAT What’s more, anyone buying a bottle of the champagne gets a kilo of fried goat meat. “We are doing this to appreciate our customers. They have been loyal since the year began,” Tribeka Lounge Manager Bill Oyoo told the Nation. The cost of a buffet has also fallen from Sh1,200 to Sh800. Clothing stalls have slashed prices too. Sonica Fashion, a baby store on Kimathi Street, is giving customers a 10 per cent discount on selected cloth and items. Mr Boniface Nengo, a cashier at the outlet, said December has seen a huge improvement in sales. REDUCED PRICES During this season, many city dwellers and their families travel upcountry and supermarkets are keen to ensure they buy stuff before leaving town. According to Mr Willy Kimani, the chief operating officer at Naivas Supermarkets, the retail chain has reduced the price of most items. “We recently launched a promotion called 'Naivas Yangu, Krisi Yangu'. We encourage customers to use their Naivas loyalty cards,” Mr Kimani said. “A shopper will go home with Sh1 million daily. At the end of the promotion on January 15, one lucky customer will walk away with Sh5 million.” Choppies Supermarkets has also slashed prices. Prices of some LED television sets have gone down by as much as Sh6,000. Beverages and juices are also cheaper than before. Choppies Tom Mboya branch manager Geoffrey Maina said the retail chain is doing so to thank its customers. “It is our way of wishing them happy holidays,” he said on Thursday. REWARD BASKETS Tuskys Supermarkets is also doing all it can to make its customers happy. A recliner sofa set is now being sold at a discounted price that will see buyers save Sh31,000. Prices of other items such as bedding and kitchenware have also fallen drastically. Besides the discounts, Mr Robert Gikonyo, the activations marketing supervisor, said Tuskys Supermarkets, Safaricom, Coca-Cola and 54 other suppliers would be running a promotion to feature more than Sh50 million customer reward baskets. Thirty-eight vehicles are also up for grabs. Most stores have taken advantage of the holiday season to clear stocks. Bata Kenya, for instance, is running a 50 per cent clearance sale on sandals. RENOVATE HOUSES Mr Thomas Njenga, a manager at Bata Kimathi Street branch, said customers who buy items valued at Sh3,000 or more automatically qualify for the offer. Online stores like Jumia, Kilimall and Vivo Activewear are selling selected products at discounted prices too. But it is not only food and cloth stores that are offering discounts. Companies dealing in tiles, toilet bowls and basins are also doing the same. At CTM Kenya, the price of tiles, taps, toilets, furniture, shower boxes, bathroom accessories and other items fell recently. “This is the time many people travel upcountry. They get time to repair and renovate their houses. It is, therefore, the best time to reduce our prices. We do it every year,” Mr Ben Omol, CTM’s marketing official, said.   Pets are often get neglected during the holiday season as their owners lose themselves in merrymaking.