Equity Bank Saturday enhanced their chances of reclaiming the Kenya Basketball Federation women's Premier League title after rallying from behind to beat champions Kenya Ports Authority 64-59 in a thrilling play-off final Game Three at Nyayo National Stadium Gymnasium. Equity Bank, who put a spirited fight to win Game Two 64-47 in Mombasa on Wednesday to lock the best-of-five series 1-1, are now one game away from being declared the new champions after taking a 2-1 lead. The bankers now need to win Game Four at the same venue on Sunday to reclaim the title they lost to rivals KPA last year. On Saturday, KPA - who had easily beaten Equity Bank 67-57 in Game One at their backyard - had their hardworking guard Hellen Oketch, Linet Obonyo and forward Bridgit Nanzala executing critical early three-pointers as they raced to a 18-10 lead at the end of the first quarter. The Dockers led 31-25 at half time. KPA were on top of the game until experienced point guard Samba Mjomba, who blew cold in the entire proceedings, fired a big three-pointer in the last quarter to lock the scores 50-50. It proved the turning point as Mjomba finally turned up nailing a free-throw which saw Equity Bank take the lead for the first time in the second half at 51-50. As fatigue crept in, forward Seline Okumu, Bridgit Nanzala and Belinda Okoth made KPA look ordinary as Equity Bank broke way with a clean 55-52 run. David Maina's charges never looked back after going ahead with only four minutes 37 seconds left. KPA Coach Anthony Ojukwu had called his last time out with 59 seconds left with guard Oketch hitting a three-pointer shot which cut the deficit to four at 59-63. Oketch threatened the bankers with another three-pointer that veered off target. Superstar Betty Kananu, who formerly played for KPA, scored game-high 18 points for Equity while the impressive Okoth added 16 for the winners. Oketch replied with 14 and Linet Obonyo 16 for KPA. Equity Bank coach Maina said: "We started the game badly but our tactical changes worked well and we are focused to wrap up the series 3-1 on Sunday to reclaim the title." Ojukwu rued concentration lapse for the loss. "We played well hanging onto the lead until the last quarter when our opponents critical three-pointers made us panic to loose concentration.'' In the classification matches, Storms defeated Strathmore University Swords 53-41 to finish third in the women's Premier League. Storms, who  had lost 3-0 to KPA in the semi-final, scored 11 points through Eveline Itabu but trailed 20- 21 at the breather. Strathmore University were knocked out 3-0 by Equity Bank in another semi-final. In the men's third place play-off, guard Griffins Ligare scored 16 points and teammate Faheem Juma added 19 to help Thunder rock Blades 61-58. SUMMARISED RESULTS: Equity Bank 64 KPA 59, Storms 53 Strathmore University Swords 41, Thunder 61 Blades 58.  