Renowned athletics coach Patrick Sang has advised athletes to give back to society and invest in their parents back home. Sang, who coaches world marathon record holder Eliud Kipchoge and world half marathon champion Geoffrey Kamworor, urged the athletes to also participate in environment protection as they seek to prioritise investment during and after their careers. “Most athletes earn millions of shillings but have forgotten the society that brought them up. To make it worse they have left their parents at home leaving in poverty yet they are earning huge amounts of money,” said Sang during his lecture at the Athletics Kenya Athletes’ Conference that ended at the Safari Park Hotel on Sunday. Sang cautioned the athletes that a parent’s curse comes with terrible repercussions. “A word from parents can either make or destroy you. Let us help them since it takes a little to invest in them,” said Sang. “We have villages, schools and churches where we came from and giving back enriches our careers,” added the 1991 Tokyo and 1993 Stuttgart world 3,000m steeplechase silver medallist. Sang also called on athletes to help their spouses, parents and friends to understand what they do. “They need to know what you go through for them to understand the challenges,” he observed. Sang also urged Athletics Kenya to strike partnerships with the local higher learning institutions to create short courses for the athletes. “They need to come up with tailor-made courses for athletes to take during the off-season,” said Sang who is pleased that most athletes are now taking education seriously. Another speaker at the conference, Nairobi advocate Elias Masika called on athletes not to hurriedly sign contracts with management teams and coaches. “It is important to consult the federation, close friends or even guardians to understand before signing them,” he said. The three-day conference that was attended by 120 elite athletes saw participants being taken through several topics including medical, investment, career transition, doping and other social vices.   Former Olympics 800m champ pours heart out on personal life struggle.