President Uhuru Kenyatta has asked corruption whistleblowers to enlist the support of the media and the civil society in unearthing corruption cases. President Kenyatta told them to take this route should the Ethics and Anti-Corruption fail to do its work. SIDELINES The president issued the remarks at Nyayo Stadium in Nairobi on Wednesday, during Jamhuri Day celebrations, to mark 55 years of full independence from Britain. While telling criminals that they will eventually be caught and punished, Mr Kenyatta told the public that it is time for them to stop watching from the sidelines. As such, the president further told Kenyans, cases of corruption should be reported to local police. "It is time for you to become active participants in this war. It is time for you to say enough is enough, be it to a policeman or a governor, a clerk or a Cabinet secretary, a judge or a politician," he said. "Nobody entrusted to hold public office has the right to demand a bribe from you or to squander what you and I have earned from our hard work.  I have shown you my unshakeable resolve on this matter, now I need you to show me yours." Mr Kenyatta added, "If they don’t listen, report it to your nearest Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission office. If they don’t listen, give the information to the media and to civil society actors to unmask these people. Do not tire of doing the right thing." COMMITMENT President Kenyatta reiterated his commitment to strengthening institutions of governance, entrenching the rule of law and stamping out corruption. He said his resolve to win the war on corruption was “unshakeable”. “And now I need you to show me yours,” he told the public. Mr Kenyatta noted that through various agencies and the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions, individuals who thought they were untouchable are now facing the full force of the law. He also noted that Kenyans get discouraged when the suspects are freed on bond terms that he termed ridiculous and by derailing court processes. Regarding the national anti-corruption conference organised by stakeholders from the private sector, religious leaders and civil society, he said his hope is that the resultant roadmap will help Kenya get rid of "this cancer". The conference will take place in January.   President Kenyatta terms bail terms given to graft suspects as “ridiculous".