Kenya Meteorological Department has said that rainfall is expected to continue over most parts across the country in the next four days. The state agency deputy director Samwel Mwangi said that the short rains are set to continue until the third week of December when they are expected to end. Mr Mwangi said the short rains that started in October have not performed as well as they did compared to the same period last year. “The cessation date for the rains will be in the first week of December in the northern part of the country before coming to the southern parts of the country in the second week going forward,” said Mr Mwangi yesterday. Mr Mwangi said that some parts of the country that have been experiencing strong winds have been as a result of showers and thunderstorms but the situation is only temporary. COUNTRYWIDE FORECAST The weatherman’s latest forecast covering first week of December, counties of Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii and Nyamira will experience rains over a few places in the morning giving way to showers and thunderstorms over several places in the afternoon with temperatures as low as 9 degrees Celsius. The same will also be experienced in Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia Counties for the forecast period. Northwestern counties of Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu will experience rains in the morning with showers and thunderstorms in the afternoon. Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, and Tharaka Nithi counties will experience cloudy mornings with light rains breaking into sunny intervals giving way to showers over several places in the afternoon with temperatures falling to as low as 6 degrees Celsius. Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo Counties will experience rains over few places in the morning and showers over few places in the afternoon for the next four days. A similar weather pattern will also be experienced by the counties of Kajiado, Kitui, Makueni, Machakos and Taita Taveta. The Coastal strip covering Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale Counties will experience showers over few places both in the morning and afternoon. The climate outlook for the October-November-December (OND) 2018 “Short Rains” season indicated that much of the country was likely to experience above average rainfall with the distribution of the rainfall in time and space expected to be good.   At the Coast, motorists and farmers are counting huge losses due to impassable roads.