The 2018 Crown Silicone golf series comes to an end on Friday with the grand finale at the par 71 Muthaiga Golf Club. The annual series has seen action played in 12 different venues in Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania. On Friday, a field of 144 players players including 47 qualifiers from the 12 venues will descend on Muthaiga for a chance to claim the grand prize of a four day golf tour to Marbella Spain. The courses that hosted the Crown Silicone golf action include Nakuru, Kiambu, Royal Nairobi, Eldoret, Ruiru, Nyanza Golf Club, Muthaiga, Karen, Sigona, Arusha Gymkhana, Nyali Golf and Country Club and Uganda Golf Club. Each of these hosts produced four players that will be out to claim the honours at Muthaiga. In addition to the grand prize, the second placed player will win a two day tour of Baobab Course at Vipingo Ridge in Kilifi County, while the third placed player will earn a two day stay at the Great Rift Valley Lodge and Golf Resort in Naivasha. Players to watch out for during Friday’s action will be Nyanza Golf Club’s Joseph Atito, Royal Nairobi’s Kevin Juma, home player Tanvir Sodi and lady golfer Esther Chumo of Eldoret. Also in action will be Crown Paints boss Rakesh Rao, a great supporter of junior golf programmes in the country. Over the past 10 years, Crown Paints Kenya has been sponsoring junior golf tournaments in the country in a bid to develop the game. The format of play like in the qualifying series, will be Stableford off full handicap scoring. On Saturday, Muthaiga will host the annual Total Golf Day which has attracted a big field of over 200 players. Meanwhile Ruiru Sports Club will for the first time host a Ladies Open which has attracted over 70 ladies drawn from various clubs in the country. They will be joined by over 100 men in the event sponsored by Safaricom, Mahiga Homes and Forever Living. Lady captain Veronica Mwaura says lots of fabulous prizes will be at stake during the event and the course has been well prepared for the tournament. At Ndumberi Golf Club popularly known as "St Andrews", club captain Michael Karanga, one of the leading amateur golfers in the country, will host his Captain’s Prize sponsored by Perspective Insurance, Atticspace, Cleanshelf Supermarkets, Gratom Babz Security, and Tropikal Brands among other sponsors. The Ndumberi Golf meet has attracted a field of 80 players ready to battle for the prizes on offer. Those drawn include Mike Ngene who won the Preshama Feeds at the same venue last weekend, while others include the ‘’Mountain Tigers’’ of Kiambu namely Paul Kaumbutho, Larry Njue, Martin Nyaga, and Martin Mutuma. The field also include Kiambu veteran golfers David Ndirangu, John Ngure, and pros MK Mwaura and George Ndegwa. Away in Nyahururu, ten local pros will be in action as they play for Sh100,000 prize in the annual Wambui Mundia tourney. Headlining the meet is Professional Golfers of Kenya(PGK) captain John Wangai of Sigona Golf Club alongside Kopan Timbe, Alfred Nandwa, Sullivan Muthugia, Simon Ngige, Richard Ainley, Kevin Mabele, Joseph Karanja, John Kagiri, and Justus Madoya. The scenic Nanyuki Sports Club will host the 10th Nanyuki Mall Golf. The annual event has attracted over 100 golfers and will coincide with the official opening of the Choppies Superstore at the mall. Choppies Supermaket is the new anchor tenant at the mall and will join the list of sponsors of the golf meet. Others sponsors include Safaricom, Stanbic, KCB and Telkom. With the on-going rains in Nanyuki, the nine-hole course is likely to be playing long this weekend thus favouring the mid- and low handicap golfers who are able to give the ball enough carry.  