IN ABUJA, NIGERIA Kenya’s representatives at the Africa Hockey club championships, Telkom Kenya and USIU Spartans, registered contrasting results in their opening matches on Saturday. While seven-time African champions Telkom Kenya edged Ghana Police 2-1, Spartans were held 1-1 by Delta Queens. Telkom, who lost the title last year to Ghana Revenue Authority, took an early lead through Jackline Mwangi’s connecting shot from a short corner. The record Kenyan champions had their defence alert fending off most of Police’s attack in the second and third quarter as their quest to win the title without conceding faced a stern test from the Ghanaians. Jos Openda's charges held on to the lead to the third quarter but shortly after resuming for the fourth quarter, Martha Safoa equalised for Police. A seemingly tired Telkom put in a spirited fight in the last five minutes with Openda urging them on and Audrey Omaido finally sounded the board. "Basically what we are looking at is collecting the three points. A win in every match till we get to the end. We already conceded a goal so the pressure of not conceding is off the players and they can now play easy," noted coach Openda who is gunning for a sixth title at the helm. Captain Tracey Karanja is optimistic of building on that result in subsequent matches. “We count it as a full win for us, Ghana Police were worthy opponents and we have always collected a slight victory against them. The heat played a big role in slowing us down but moving forward we shall adopt and thrive,” said an optimistic Karanja. Meanwhile, USIU Spartans drew 1-1 with Delta Queens, Pauline Naise scoring the students' goal. In other matches, defending champions Ghana Revenue Authority drew 0-0 with Kada Queens. Egypt’s Eastern Company thrashed Niger Flickers 4-0 in the men’s tie while Ghana Revenue Authority men drew 4-4 with El Sharkia from Egypt. Telkom and USIU face off in their second round matches on Sunday in the tournament which has adopted a round-robin format while defending champions Ghana Revenue Authority and Ghana Police clash in an all-Ghanaian tie. Kada Queens take on Delta Queens in an all-Nigerian clash.  