Ugandan international full-back Phillip Wokorach claimed a hat-trick of tries and six conversions as Kabras Sugar pummelled Impala Saracens 42-10 in Kakamega to uphold their unbeaten run in Kenya Cup rugby league. At the same time, defending champions Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) staged an all-round display to edge out visiting Homeboyz 34-15 at the Ruaraka Den as Kenya Harlequin silenced Nondescript 32-12 at the same venue. Blak Blad claimed their second victory of the season, stunning visiting Strathmore Leos 24-22 at Kenyatta University as Mwamba upheld their resurgence to beat Menengai Oilers 27-15 at the RFUEA. At Nakuru Athletic Club, hosts Nakuru enhanced their chances of reaching the play-offs when they humbled touring Mean Machine from the University of Nairobi 29-10. Besides converting his own try, Wokorach went on to add on the extras after centre Nick Baraza, utility back Logan Basson and second-row Brian Tonya also touched down. Quinton Ongo and Tyson Okoth’s tries failed to rescue Impala Saracens from the jaws of defeat at the Kakamega Showground. It was Kabras Sugar’s fifth consecutive bonus victory as they head to Christmas break at the top of the league standings with 25 points. The Western Kenya Millers are now the only team yet to concede defeat as the league entered its fifth leg. “It shows that our new structures are working well but more is yet to come from us,” declared Kabras Sugar captain and hooker Max Adaka. “Our defence is looking great at the moment and we want to uphold that." Fly-half Billy Isabwa, full-back Darwin Mukidza, eigthman Peter Waitere and substitute flanker Andrew Amonde touched down a try each for KCB for their bonus point victory. But not before Mukidza made four conversions and a penalty.   Scrum-half Mohammed Omollo and winger Bush Mwale managed a try each for Homeboyz as fly-half Henry Ayaa made one conversion and two penalties but all was in vain as they lost to KCB who led 13-0 at the break. KCB scaled one place to second with 20 points as they swapped places with Impala, who have 17 points. It was Impala’s first defeat of the season. Despite the victory, KCB coach Curtis Olago isn’t a happy man. “My boys need to get serious. We are sparring instead of boxing. We need to get out of that as fast as possible,” said Olago. “We can rise the tempo then we go cold when our rivals are down….we ought to finish off no matter the situation.” After getting a penalty try, Cacius Omollo, Brandon Opiyo and Duncan Abuyaka would score a try each for Nakuru. Martin Muita made one conversion and a penalty while Collins Onyango converted once. Alfred Orege, Ian Wando and Shadon Munoko scored a try each for Machine with Festus Shihasi making two conversions. Mike Agevi managed two tries for Mwamba as Tony Owuor and Brad Nashon added a try each to beat Oilers.  