Q. How do I go about endearing myself to my boss without being obvious about it? I am asking this question because in a past issue of this magazine, you said that to grow in your career, hard work and qualifications alone are not enough, you need to be connected to those in power too.  I need to explain the significance of being well-regarded by your seniors at work. The statement you use about being connected to those in power is not to be misconstrued to mean, “watch out, I know people”, rather, that you raise your game to a level where it is visible not just to your line manager, but to his or her peers and their bosses. In addition, it is not just hard work and qualifications that come to play, your attitude to work, colleagues, clients and other key stakeholders has to be right too. You could be the most productive member of your team, but if you become egoistic about it or step on others to get ahead, you are likely to lose the respect of not only your bosses, but your colleagues as well. Good interpersonal skills are equally important, be sure you are not known for the wrong reasons, such as being the office clown. Be objective in your views, not always complaining about what is going wrong, rather, providing solutions. When you get invited to senior managers’ meetings, be part of the discussion, share ideas and provide practical solutions. I have witnessed a situation where a senior manager is impressed by an employee’s contribution, and within a short time, he or she is fast-tracked for more responsibilities. Consider volunteering to undertake projects that may be outside your job description but present an opportunity to learn, whether they are rewarded financially or not. Some employees steer away from such opportunities often seen as overwork instead of embracing them to not only learn, but also network. Be knowledgeable about the business and its challenges. Research on your key competitors to advance some useful intelligence in your discussions. Have some good appreciation of global trends and how they may affect your business and share these at every possible opportunity. In other words, be proactive and show initiative on matters that are important to the business. The moment you stop being relied upon, you will not only lose all credibility, but possibly your job too.   How do I warn her that they are all fisis (hyenas) without coming across as a gossip.