One of the suspects believed to be among the masterminds of a multimillion fake supply tenders at State House and Department of Defence (DOD) was Friday charged with fraud, theft, forgery and masquerading as a National Intelligence Service (NIS) officer. Mr Fredrick Mangala Muhanji, aka Douglas Simiyu, appeared before Kiambu Chief Magistrate Patricia Gichohi where six counts related to fraud, stealing, forgery, uttering fake documents and impersonation were read out to him. In the dock, Mr Mangala, who was arrested last week in Kakamega after attending a murder case in which he had been charged with killing a person with a pistol, appeared subdued, with his demeanour and voice betraying the gravity of the offence. SUPPLY LAPTOPS In the first count, Mr Mangala was charged with conspiracy to defraud which is contrary to section 317 of the Penal Code. The charge sheet read that on diverse dates in January this year, jointly with others not before court, conspired with intent to defraud by means of fake tender number STHSE/SUPLS/0451-404/2017-2018/SH, dated January 9, 2018, obtained 1200 laptops valued at Sh96 million from Charles Gathii. The accused, together with others, are reported to have issued Mr Gathii, who is the director Microhouse Technologies Limited — a software development company — with a Sh200 million tender to supply the laptops to State House for installation of a security system. SH96 MILLION The second count read that on diverse dates between January 18 and January 22 in Kilimani, jointly with others not before court, the accused stole 1200 HP laptops worth Sh96 million, the property of Mr Gathii, whom they are said to have lied to that they were delivering the goods to State House. He also denied making a fake document contrary to section 375 (a) of the Penal Code, whereby on January 9, 2018 at unknown place, with intent to defraud, jointly with others and without lawful authority, made a fake a tender document dated January 9 for the supply of 1200 laptops to State House. Mr Mangala was also charged with forgery, contrary to Section 345 of the Penal Code. Determination on his bond will be heard on December 19.   The tender was for the supply of laptops to State House, police say.