Retired major Sammy Mbugua was one of the golfers who got the par 71 Muthaiga Golf Club course real tough during the weekend’s Chief of Defence Forces (CDF) Trophy golf tournament. Mbugua, based at Ruiru Sports Club, picked up a string of double and single bogeys during the well-attended event, with only a consolation par coming late at the 15th hole. However, his score of 32 stableford points still earned him the CDF top prize. The CDF Trophy is the grand finale of the 2018 Kenya Defence Forces Golf Association (KDFGA) series sponsored by Vivo Energy. Mbugua beat Col (Rtd) Julius Githiri of Kiambu and Nakuru’s Captain Dr. Martha Kinyanjui by two points. Leading the Muthaiga members, was handicap 13 Joseph Gikunda Iracha who posted a total of 38 points, to win by a point from Gitonga Arithi who took the runner up prize while Mwai Mbuthia playing off handicap six, posted 36 points to finish in third place. Former Muthaiga lady captain Jane Nzibo carded 36 points to claim the ladies first prize, five points ahead of Rose Koome and in third place was Ling Bai on 30 points. The CDF Trophy a huge field of 200 players with S Mbugua taking the first prize with 37 points, three better than B. Koyier and Brian Akun Nganga Mwanyumba clinched the junior tournament with 33 points and the nines went to Sammy Ndungu on 19 and George Ndegwa who carded 22 points. At the par 72 Kiambu Golf Club course, handicap three golfer Michael Ngene clinched the overall title in the annual Inooro Golf tournament courtesy of Dr. S.K. Macharia and which attracted a field of 102 players. Ngene, bogeyed the fifth and sixth in the first nine and the 15th and 17th at the back nine where he also made birdies on the 11th, 12th, 14th and 18th for a level par 72 gross, beating the other leading player Michael Karanga(1), and the handicap five Steve Kiaro by one point. Club chairman Timothy Kihara won the gross after firing eight over par 80 gross. In the ladies section, Jane Kanyi posted 20 and 21 for a total of 41 points to win ahead of Margaret Mbugua on 35 and third placed Mary Kimemia on 31 points. Leading the guests was Golf Park’s David Nyamu who carded 40 points, beating Joseph Biriri by five points. The nines went to Pius Mworia on 19 points and Simon Kamunge on 22points. The sponsors team winner was Michael Wanjohi who scored 33 points. At Nyeri Golf Club, Khilan Shah won the 37th edition of the Sana Nagata Trophy golf tournament after firing net 68, winning by one shot from Ephantus Mate while Charles Mwaniki posted 72 to finish third and in fourth place was Ceaser Thinwa on 74 nett, one better than Eddie Karumwa. In the ladies section, Mercy Mburu fired nett 73 to emerge as the winner. The junior title went to Osborne Wang’ombe who carded gross 112. At Njoro Country Club, Harjit Sagoo posted 39 points to win the Sarova Woodlands Hotel and Spa golf tournament. Taking the men’s first prize was Javan Miriithi who posted 38 points after beating Stephen Mathai on countback. The ladies first prize went to S Sahota who scored 38 points to win ahead of Susan Minjire on 31. Charles Angwenyi won the gross with 36 points in addition to the men’s longest drive while Susan Minnire won the ladies longest drive.  