Kenya is today marking 55 years of attaining its independence from Britain in 1963. The national celebrations are being held at Nyayo stadium in the capital Nairobi. President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto have already arrived at the venue from which Mr Kenyatta is expected to address the nation. Mr Kenyatta, the commander-in-chief of the military who for the first time has sported full military regalia during national celebrations, inspected a guard of honour mounted by the Kenya Defence Forces. Mr Kenyatta arrived in style, dressed in the official and ceremonial Kenya Army full service red tunic for the five-star general. He is now the third Kenyan president to preside over a national function in full military uniform, after his father and Kenya's founding President Jomo Kenyatta and Daniel arap Moi, Mzee Jomo's successor.   Mr Kenyatta's predecessor Mwai Kibaki (2003-2013) did not appear in public in military regalia. He also held a sword in his left hand as he inspected the guard of honour.   Holding the sword, Mr Kenyatta, in yet another unusual gesture, saluted opposition leaders and his bitter rival in 2018 elections Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula. The stands at Nyayo Stadium were full even before the guests arrived, signalling a huge interest  in the national holiday compared to other years.   After the guard of honour, the Kenya Army 17 Battalion was presented with the presidential colours and given the honours to troop its own. The 17 Battalion is a unit in the Kenya Army born in 2009, and in 2010, the unit colour was approved to be purple.   When a unit or base is designated to troop its colour, it becomes an honour to the regiment/base as it is able to showcase its colours in a ceremony known as Trooping Of The Colour, the Kenya Defence Forces explained in a statement. The presidential colour is trooped on special days such as Jamhuri Day.   In the ceremony, the colours are marched in under escort of the colour party to the edge of parade. It is ceremoniously received by the unit/regimental/base sergeant major who hands over the colours to the colour officers.   During trooping, every soldier on parade has a close view of the colour as it passes while paying the highest possible honour by presenting arms in salute. In military tradition, the whole ceremony is one of symbolic trust given to a unit/base. In Kiambu County, the well-attended celebrations were held at Thika stadium. The colourful event was led by the provincial administration, headed by the county commissioner Wilson Wanyanga. Area Governor Ferdinand Waititu and area MP Patrick Wainaina also attended the event. Mr Waititu urged Kiambu residents to assist the less fortunate during this festive season and live in harmony.  More follows. Reports by Patrick Langat, Kennedy Kimathi, Mary Wambui and Harry Misiko.  