In 2019, many motorists’ wish list for our roads, vehicles and drivers would include (and be topped by): Reshape or remove all speed bumps, in accordance with the law. None should be more than 15 cms high, and all should be at least three metres wide in the direction of travel. Those dimensions should be the “most severe” allowed, and the majority of bumps could and should be lower and wider than that. Any and all should be signposted in advance, be brightly painted, have reflective posts on the hard shoulder at their location, and ideally be preceded by rumble strips that give a vibration warning but no discomfort or handling impact at all, at any speed. Roadside communities which benefit from the existence of bumps should be responsible for safeguarding and maintaining all these qualities, on the understanding that any non-compliant bumps will be promptly and permanently removed. A pledge to that should be a precondition of any bump being installed. Wherever possible, road reserves should be wide enough to allow a path for pedestrians/cyclists and small motorcycles well away from the hard shoulder so there is no non-vehicular activity on or near an arterial road. As soon and comprehensively as possible, all road markings should at least be doubled in width, and include a clearway stripe on both edges. Relative to the cost of building and maintaining a highway, the price of paint (even the good stuff formulated for roads) is petty cash but it has a huge educational, channelling and psychological benefit. Any vehicle which is not capable of achieving its maximum speed limit on a flat road (and generally maintaining that rate of progress subject to the ambient flow of traffic) should not be permitted on arterial highways. This would include hand-carts, bicycles, small motorcycles and underpowered/overloaded trucks. To encourage good maintenance practices, routine service should be mandatory at least once every three months, and certificated to include a general safety check. Brand new original parts should be duty free. Used and non-original parts should be tax-penalty deterred at source. All these measures could be implemented promptly and at relatively low cost. In conjunction with a syllabus and competence in training, more rigorous testing, and a universally available and updated highway code (recommended by this column often and recently), these provisions on roads and vehicles would enable compliance and thus justify strict enforcement — especially of clearway principles and lane disciplines. These strategies are potentially the quickest, most economical and most assured way of achieving a quantum improvement in mobility, economy, the environment and safety. They are doable and they are affordable. Not doing them is the more cripplingly costly option in every respect. Happy New Year.   What would a vehicle owner in Kenya tell Santa?