The US investment potential in Africa is underutilised but the country hopes to work on developing that area, Amb. Tibor Peter Nagy, the US Assistant Secretary for African Affairs, has said. Amb. Nagy spoke at State House in Nairobi on Thursday during a meeting with President Uhuru Kenyatta. US Ambassador to Kenya Robert Godec and Foreign Affairs Principal Secretary Macharia Kamau attended the session. DEEPER TIES The meeting discussed the deepening of Kenya-US partnerships in peace, security and trade. Assistant Secretary Nagy appreciated the two countries' strategic partnership in these areas and said they will be used to strengthen trade and investment. Concerning the Big Four agenda, Mr Nagy said the key points of food security, universal healthcare, manufacturing and affordable housing are aligned with the aspirations that the US has for Africa. The envoy praised President Kenyatta for his focus on the blue economy, saying the Sustainable Blue Economy Conference in Nairobi was a major success. He also praised Kenya for devolution, saying it is worth emulation by other countries, and for actively contributing to peace and stability in the region. COOPERATION President Kenyatta said the two countries need to strengthen their trade and investment ties as the potential for cooperation in these areas has not been exploited fully. “We have a strong strategic partnership in other spheres but on the economic side, it is not as strong as it should be,” he said. Regarding Kenya Airways' direct flights to New York, the president expressed optimism that they will attract investments alongside Kenya’s progressive labour laws. “We are hoping that the US will take advantage of this to deepen its trade partnership with Kenya,” he said. On security, President Kenyatta said Kenya and the US face similar threats so the cooperation they have cultivated over the years will be beneficial. He also briefed the US official on peace and security in the region, citing efforts by Kenya and the Intergovernmental Authority on Development for peace and stability is attained in South Sudan and Somalia.   Invasion of Africa by the orientals has seen the West lose most of its former allies