One day the oracles shall record that in the year of our Lord 2018, the mighty Gor Mahia Football Club made history as the first club from our necks of the woods to take the battle to a top English Premiership side, Everton FC and play them in their Goodison Park stadium. What a joy it shall be when a decade from now those who will be supporting K’Ogalo will read of the exploits of the squad we have this year. By any definition of the word, our boys sauntered into the history books this year and their names shall remain etched there till Kingdom come. Looking at the state of our so called rivals, I think Gor Mahia might end up being the only team to return to England and play yet another team. What I am saying is that there is no competition worth talking about especially from our sorry looking neighbours at the den. It has been said that one cannot be completely useless, you can be used as an example to warn others. What a befitting way to describe our neighbours! But then again they too have made history of sorts - there is no team in this region that can beat All Footballers Club (AFC) Leopards when it comes to sacking coaches! K’Ogalo also needs to be lauded especially for the good account the boys gave before the painful crashing out of the Caf Champions League after going down 2-0 away against Nigeria's Lobi Stars to bow out on away goals after a 3-3 aggregate score. A week later I still feel sore just thinking of the same. But as I said in these pages last week, I am sure that like a phoenix, Gor Mahia shall rise from the ashes and cause ripples on the continental scene once again. Just as it should be. Having said that, there are some issues swirling and twirling around the club which are causing us fans serious discomfort. For one, there has been a lot of squabbling among the officials at the expense of players and club welfare. It is our hope as diehard members of the Green Army that such uncouth behaviours shall not be carried into 2019. There is also the issue of a club house which has turned into a song. I am appealing to chairman Ambrose Rachier to treat this as a matter of life and death. It is a crying shame that a club of Gor’s stature does not of have club house 50 years since it was formed. Talking of 50 years, what happened to the elaborate celebrations we were promised? When we were called to some dancing hall in Nairobi West at the beginning of the year we were assured that it was just a fund raiser and that a major shindig would follow to celebrate the birthday. Surely it is not every day that one turns 50 and I am still hopeful that those in charge are organising a major do to mark this crucial milestone. Happy New year to all of you and let’s ramp up our support in 2019!  