Senators have raised the red flag over parking fees charged by institutions that offer public services and are demanding the intervention of the national government to stop the exploitation. The legislators questioned whether the fees have legal basis as they faulted public institutions such as hospitals, schools, malls and churches for exploiting people seeking services from them. The issue was raised by Wajir Senator Ali Abdullahi who is seeking a statement from the Ministry of Transportation and Infrastructure on the matter. “This is controversial but Kenyans are suffering. When you go for services in hospitals, schools and malls, the charges are very high. Kenyans have to be helped and it is our duty and responsibility to undertake this,” Mr Abdullahi said on Thursday. EXPLOITATIVE MALLS Mr Abdullahi wants the state to show the policy framework that guides parking fees in public and private institutions, especially those offering public and crucial services to Kenyans. He wants the ministry to explain measures that the government will take to ensure that patients, parents and the general public are not exploited by owners of premises through high parking fees when they visit such premises for services. Senators Moses Wetangula, Eric Omogeni, Fatuma Dullo, Mutula KiLonzo, Enock Wambua and Irungu Kangata supported the statement, saying time has come for the House to defend motorists from exploitative mall owners “We travel all over the world and airports offer services. They are not an impediment to travellers. When you go to Heathrow you do not see anybody paying when they are entering or leaving the airport. However, you have to pay at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport and other local airports," Mr Wetangula complained. 'RIP-OFF' Describing the charges as a rip off, Mr Omogeni noted it is only in Kenya where people drive into supermarkets and they are forced to pay while Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot complained that the cancer has spread to public parks like Uhuru Gardens on Lang’ata Road which can be accessed only when motorists pay Sh300 even at 5.30pm. “You cannot drive into a mall for shopping where you are bringing business and you are forced to pay parking fees. Someone has gone to hospital for treatment is forced to go to their car and look for a parking bay. This is a rip-off.” Mr Cheruiyot noted that these are public spaces and challenged the senators that it falls upon them, as a House of Parliament, to act. “One of the dictates of our Constitution is that no other institution apart from Parliament can issue directives that have a force of law,” he said, hinting that enacting a law to regulate the charges is an option. “What they are subjecting people to pay is equivalent to giving a directive that has a force of law. As a House, this is something that we urgently need to address and find a long lasting solution.” INCOME DISCLOSURE Minority Whip Mutula Kilonzo Junior wondered whether in the case of the parking fee charged at the airports, the Kenya Airports Authority (KAA) is disclosing the sort of income that they are collecting from cars that get in and out the airports. “There are certain Kenyans whose business is to wait for people to wake up in the morning and park their cars and by evening they are millionaires without doing anything,” Mr Kilonzo Jnr said. “The companies that are collecting this money are making billions of shillings. It is a booming business. In fact, in this case where they are collecting from the airport, they charge their commission in advance. They are paid their 10 per cent before they remit the money to the KAA,” he said.   KPA boss lauds Mt Kenya University for venturing into the hospitality sector with Sh600m facility.