Visiting Western Stima frustrated hosts Bandari to a 1-1 draw in an ill-tempered SportPesa Premier League match at the Mbaraki Sports Club on Saturday. Stima, top of the league standings prior to this weekend's matches, had Kevin Okongo to thank for the draw after he cancelled out Wycliffe Ochomo's first minute opener on 17 minutes. Stima now drop to second behind leaders Mathare United, who beat Posta Rangers 2-1 in an early kick-off in Nakuru on Saturday, while Bandari third on eight points. Bandari coach Benard Mwalala kept faith with the starting line-up which has done duty for him in the last three games, with Yema Mwana, Willy Lugogo, Hassan Abdallah and Collins Agade leading the attack alongside Ochomo. Ochomo slotted home a minute into the match after receiving an inch-perfect pass from William Wadri who had been teed up by Felly Mulumba. Former Kenyan international Wesley Kemboi was brought down outside the box, before Okongo drew Stima level from the resultant free-kick which gave Bandari keeper Farouk Shikalo no chance. The hosts had several scoring opportunities but were denied by either the flag or Stima goalkeeper Samuel Odhiambo. Ochomo scored what looked like a clear goal in the 27th minute when tapped in a loose ball from a goalmouth melee, but was flagged offside. Shaban Kenga, who came in the second half, also combined well with Wadri but had his shot saved by Odhiambo who had a good afternoon in the Stima goal. Stima looked contended with a draw, concentrating much on their time in thwarting Bandari's attacks especially in the second half when they were under pressure. “Stima came for a draw and successfully got away with it after the referee denied us what looked like two clear goals,” a furious Mwalala said after the match. His stima counterpart Paul Ogai felt his players gave Bandari too much respect. “Our aim was to keep our unbeaten record intact and a draw was within our plans,” he said as his players celebrated at the end of the match.   Leopards remain winless, stagnant in 15th position.