Security breaches, poor enforcement and inadequate public sensitisation are to blame for the failure by Kenya Revenue Authority’s (KRA) Sh17.8 billion Excisable Goods Management System to keep counterfeit liquor out of the market leading to billions in tax loss. In what can be viewed as deliberate attempts to derail the system meant to tighten tax compliance, KRA failed to adequately enforce or educate consumers on the track and trace system. KRA recorded a big drop in taxes from excisable goods such as beer, spirits and cigarettes for the year ended June. The taxman recorded a 1.81 per cent drop. So bad was the situation by the end of December 2017 that KRA Commissioner-General John Njiraini described the drop as “unusual”. The EGMS provided by Swiss security firm SICPA was designed to protect KRA from tax loss as well as protect consumers from counterfeit liquor and tobacco that have proliferated the market. The system’s design features tracking of products by incorporation into the production chain of manufacturers as well as authentication features verifiable by consumers. By use of excise stamps, the system fitted in the production chain allows KRA to track how much alcohol each liquor firm produces. The stamps are applied and activated on products during production and the information relayed to KRA. 'GROSS MISTAKES' In an exclusive interview with the Nation, SICPA Kenya Managing Director Christopher York described the system as watertight. He, however, laments that the system has not been adequately implemented. “The EGMS is meant to protect the government from tax loss by keeping counterfeit products out of the market. It is designed with a series of security features that make it water tight but without enforcement results cannot be achieved,” Mr York said. Findings by the Nation have now revealed gross mistakes by the authority and security leaks led to underperformance of the multi-billion system. Coupled with interagency wrangles and opposition from a section of manufacturers, the system’s success remains in doubt. The first blunder the authority made was fail to deploy sufficient enforcement to effect the system. CONSUMER AWARENESS KRA in September 2016 introduced new generation excise stamps for wines, spirits, tobacco, and beer whose features allows distributors to verify genuine products using smartphones through an app dubbed “Soma Label”. As part of the package offered by SICPA, KRA was trained on tracking and authentication of alcoholic products. The excise stamps supplied by SICPA bear a series of security features from scannable codes and use of colour shifting inks which the authority was trained to use. A key tool designed was the smartphone application Soma Label App which was meant to scan and identify Quick Response (QR) codes by enforcers as well as consumers. “This series of features makes it hard to duplicate. Counterfeiters can try to duplicate maybe one but not all of them which makes the stamps tamperproof. They have tried but for trained enforcers it is very easy to detect a fake,” Mr York said. ENFORCEMENT ISSUES However, KRA has about only 50 enforcement officers covering the entire country, a number too low to conduct efficient enforcement. For enforcement officials, the security firm also supplied about 250 specialised mobile devices that scan specific codes on the products. But with low enforcement numbers, the gadgets remain largely unused. For the Soma Label App, it was mainly designed for consumer verification at the end of the production chain. Not only did KRA fail to educate the public on the application, it has been largely relying on it for field enforcement. SICPA, however, warns that the app independently cannot solve the counterfeiting and tax evasion menace. “Soma Label is mostly consumer-based because it uses a QR code. This can be photocopied from other genuine products and placed on fake ones. The app alone cannot be used for enforcement and that is why we incorporated a series of features,” Mr York said. Reports now suggest that KRA had on two separate occasions identified two public relations firms to publicise the Soma Label APP but the idea was eventually dropped. One of the firms is said to have pulled the plug on KRA following a misunderstanding while the second was rejected by the authority’s top management because they “did not like” their pitch. CRACKDOWN Wary that the situation was getting out of hand, KRA earlier this year joined in a nationwide crackdown against fake liquor. In a futile move to save the situation, KRA launched a sensitization drive across 35 major towns to educate stakeholders, including police and administrators on how to use the Soma Label App. The forums were, however, largely marred by low turnout spelling doom for the authority. During the crackdown launched in March, KRA and Kenya Bureau of Standards (Kebs) led the way but with few officers at disposal, the crackdown lost momentum leaving police and administrators chasing counterfeiters without technical support. 'STAMPS SCANDAL' At the same time KRA is on the spot over claims that on various occasions reels of the legitimate stamps supplied by SICPA have disappeared from its vault under unclear circumstances. The alleged security breaches would explain recent findings by the Nation of counterfeit premium liquors in circulation with legitimate excise stamps. In the new scam, illegal manufacturers have been packaging substandard alcohol in premium brand bottles complete with KRA excise stamps and even manufacturer and distributor batch numbers. However, manufacturers and distributors in a recent inspection exercise disowned some of the brands insisting the batch numbers were fake. Sources claim that on several occasions flags have been raised over missing excise stamp reels but KRA officials are said to have opted to handle the leaks internally. At some point SICPA had to change its supply methods, from the initial bulk supply to only what KRA authorises to be supplied to manufacturers. Nation has made several attempts to get a comment from KRA but all our queries remain unanswered. SICPA now believes that KRA should step up its enforcement mandate if the system is to work. “This is a very good system and with the right kind of vigour to enforce and by educating the public it will save the country so much tax lost in counterfeiting,” Mr York said. The firm is also currently designing an upgrade of the system set to be released next year.   In his annual report, Auditor-General Edward Ouko said that Mr Njiraini is in office illegally.