The National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA) has suspended licenses of more than 200 drivers since the festive season began. NTSA Director-General Francis Meja said that approximately 210 drivers’ licenses have been revoked since the government launched an enhanced enforcement of traffic rules in November. Mr Meja said that the enforcement is aimed at addressing rising road crashes in the country. RE-TRAINED He said that the drivers charged with various offences relating to violation of traffic rules and regulations will be required to undergo refresher training and re-testing before being allowed to drive again. “Since commencement of the exercise, approximately 210 driver licenses have been suspended. We shall intensify efforts to wipe out all drivers failing to observe traffic laws by revoking their licenses,” said Mr Meja in a press statement to newsrooms on Tuesday. At the same time, the NTSA boss called on drivers to be extra-vigilant on the road, reminding them that they have a great responsibility in preventing road crashes by observing basic traffic rules. HIGH TRAFFIC He warned that the festive season is a period with high traffic as people travel to various destinations. It also comes at a time when the country is experiencing heavy rains, presenting potentially dangerous conditions for road users, he added. “Road traffic crashes tend to increase during the festive season, majority occurring mostly at hazardous zones or blackspots. Majority of these crashes are attributable to human behaviour. “In this regard, we wish to remind the general public, motorists and all other road users to be extra-vigilant, patient and cognisant of other road users,” said Mr Meja. ROAD DEATHS On Tuesday, seven passengers died when the matatu they were travelling in collided with a truck along the Eldoret-Nakuru highway. Earlier on Monday, there was another grisly road crash at Kapiti along the Nairobi-Mombasa highway where five people lost their lives while nine others were seriously injured after a 14-seater van they were traveling in collided head on with a lorry. The van was carrying members of a church from Siaya County who were on their way to Mombasa. On Sunday, two people died after a 14-seater matatu they were travelling collided with a truck at Total Junction on the Nakuru-Eldoret highway while at least 13 others sustained serious injuries.   Police looking for truck driver who escaped into a thicket after hitting the matatu.