Police in Mombasa have arrested the suspected leader of a gang that has killed more than 20 residents of Kisauni and Nyali constituencies and injured many others. County Police Commander Johnston Ipara said on Wednesday that the suspect was arrested at a lodging in Bamburi. HUNT ON The suspect was one of three whom police had been looking for following alarm by residents. "Our officers smoked him out of his hideout. We are now going for the other two leaders and their members," said Mr Ipara. The three, according to police reports, have been seen at the scenes of several murders in the sub-counties. At least 20 people have been murdered by the gang since November. The development came a day after 10 suspected criminals were apprehended over the same cases. The 10 were arrested in sting operations after one person was killed and three critically wounded in Kisauni and Nyali constituencies on Tuesday. The criminals have turned some parts of the two sub-counties, including Kadzandani, Vikwatani, Mafisini, Soweto Junda, Mishomoroni and Kwa Bulo, into no-go zones. A survivor of one of the attacks said they use crude weapons in the attacks and that they were black and jungle attire and cover their heads. SECURITY MEETING During Jamhuri Day celebrations at Tononoka grounds on Wednesday, insecurity took centre stage with politicians and security agents calling for cooperation. Governor Hassan Joho said the problem will be addressed only if residents take some of the responsibility. “Next Monday we will hold a meeting with security apparatus to discuss possible solutions to these issues. We will then roll out a campaign dubbed “Be involved” so that each one of us can be part of this fight against insecurity,” she said in his address. Mombasa County Commissioner Evans Achoki said stringent measures have been put in place to deal with the gang. “We have opened police posts at Konkodia, Kadongo and Kadzandani and are seeking residents' support in dealing with these people. With cooperation, I can assure you peace will prevail," he said. Politicians including Senator Mohammed Faki, MPs Mishi Mboko (Likoni) and Mohammed Ali (Nyali) and Speaker Aharub Khatri noted the need to address the issue of unemployment as it is connected to insecurity. Mr Ali said they will put their political differences aside and work on ending the crime wave.   Some parts of Kisauni and Nyali are no-go zones due to gang activities.