The future looks bleak for Kenyan goalkeeping as old guards hang up gloves with no definitive successors in sight, it’s an alarming trend. We no longer have the stunning reflexes of Wilson Oburu who is now the team manager at Bandari. Neither do we have the great organisational skills of Duncan Ochieng’ who is rumoured to be warming up for a coaching role at Tusker. The penalty-saving heroics of Jerim Onyango are no longer at Gor Mahia as he now horns the juniors at their youth team. The set-piece specialist that was Francis Ochieng’ is no longer at Ulinzi Stars while Chemelil Sugar are still struggling to replace the long-serving Frederick Onyango. The five represent a crop of goalkeepers who treated fans to special saves, decisive moments and at times moments of drama for the last ten years in the Sportpesa Premier League. Their exit has left a glaring dearth of Kenyan goalkeepers in the top tier league. An influx of foreign goalkeepers joining top KPL sides is not only worrying but also spells doom for the next generation of Kenyan custodians. This transfer window, Sofapaka, KCB, AFC Leopards and Tusker have all signed foreign keepers for the 2018/19 season. Burundian Justin Ndikumana, formerly of DR Congo side St Eloi Lupopo, was signed by Batoto Ba Mungu as a replacement for Ugandan Matthias Kigonya who moved to Kakamega Homeboyz. At Tusker, Robert Matano approved the signing of Rwandese Emery Mvuyekure from AS Kigali to replace Kenya One Patrick Matasi. AFC Leopards also beefed up their goalkeeping department with another Rwandese Eric Ndayishimiye despite Ezekiel Owade enjoying a break-out campaign last term. SPL newcomers KCB were also not left out, signing Tanzanian Peter Manyika from Singida United. The arrival of these foreigners should be a real cause for concern for the future of Harambee Stars goalkeeping department. To put it into perspective, the once promising Robert Mboya will find playing time hard to come by following the arrival of Emery at Tusker. Similarly, the exciting Owade will certainly be used as back up for Ndayishimiye while at Sofapaka Isaiah Wakasala and Richard Aimo will soon be understudies to Ndikumana. At KCB, Manyika has already emerged as the first choice ahead of Zamu Adisa and Joseph Okoth who joined the bankers after his development at Bandari stalled due to lack of playing time. The fact that upcountry teams, Kakamega Homeboyz and Zoo, have Ugandans as their first-choice keepers further highlights the problem. While Kigonya has to fight for a place with Gabriel Andika at Homeboyz, Elungat is undoubtedly Zoo’s first choice. With Boniface Oluoch, David Okello, John Waw, Wycliffe Kasaya and Jacktone Odhiambo set to retire in the near future, there seems to be a vacuum with the development of young keepers being curtailed by the foreigners. Clubs like Mathare United and Ulinzi Stars, who have a strict policy of signing local players, look like the only hope for young keepers. It’s no surprise that Job Ochieng’ and Timothy Otieno are flourishing at the two clubs. The rise of Kevin Omondi and Farouk Shikalo at Sony Sugar and Bandari respectively shows that young keepers can step up if given the chance. We need to give our young keepers the platform to develop before rushing to sign average foreign custodians. Unless this trend is checked, the wait for the next Kenya One might take a while.  