At least 169 students have graduated from the Mandera Vocational Training Centre in the county’s efforts to boost self-employment. The graduation ceremony was presided over by Mandera Governor Ali Roba. Mr Roba said that he is hopeful that through the skills they have acquired, the youths will be self-employed and also create jobs for others instead of depending on white colour jobs. The governor added that high levels of unemployment among the youth in the county have led them to drug abuse, prostitution, extremism and other criminal activities, adding that such cases will be eradicated through equipping them with skills that will make them self-reliant. LABOUR MARKET He said that the county spends approximately Sh3.5 billion in the labour market, most of which he said goes to people from other parts of the country since most of the youths in Mandera lack the required job skills “It is very unfortunate that this labour costs go to hired workers from other parts of the country simply because our youth lack the needed skills which are being offered in our polytechnics,” he said. But the governor said that plans are underway to reverse the situation in the next five years so that the county’s youths will be the ones doing such jobs. RESOURCES Mr Roba said that his administration has allocated more resources in terms of personnel, capital as well as infrastructure to develop, maintain and sustain vocational training centres. He added that currently, the county has seven operational vocational training centres up from only two youth polytechnics before the advent of devolution. The governor said that the county has made positive strides in infrastructural development in different vocational training centres. He added that over 600 trainees are currently enrolled in all the polytechnics in the county. MORE GRADUATES He further said that the current number of graduates is double that of last year when only 84 graduated, adding that it this is a clear indication that the youth are heading in the right direction. The governor thanked all the development partners who were supporting the county in running the vocational training centres. Among them is the Islamic Relief of Kenya which is currently supporting four polytechnics in supplementing the county’s efforts and the Kenya Red Cross which paid examination fees for 73 students. He added that the county has allocated Sh32 million to boost infrastructure in training centres and Sh11 million for operations of the centres in the 2018/2019 financial year. He appealed to the youth in Mandera County to enrol in various polytechnics to acquire skills which will be beneficial to their lives.  