Athletics Kenya (AK) President Jackson Tuwei has brokered a truce between Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Echesa and Boxing Association of Kenya (BAK) chairman John Kameta. Tuwei, who is a retired Lieutenant General, brought Echesa and Kameta to a round-table meeting on Thursday at the Cabinet Secretary's office at Kencom House, in a move likely to end the war of words between the two. The meeting caught the boxing fraternity unawares especially the factions that backed Kameta and the suspended BAK secretary general Isaac Mbote, who was replaced by Paul Mung’ori in August this year. Tuwei said they held a fruitful meeting that bore resolutions that will eventually lead to a peaceful BAK election and smooth transition. The meeting unanimously agreed that BAK convenes a meeting for the chairmen for its nine affiliates on December 5 at the CS' office to chart the way forward. “I personally love boxing and I wasn’t happy with what was happening…I must thank Echesa and Kameta for putting aside their differences and agreeing to meet,” said Tuwei. “I particularly commend Echesa for his understanding since this will avoid any possible ban by the International Amateur Boxing Association (Aiba).” Tuwei noted that sports is one entity hence he wouldn’t have liked to see a particular sport suffer for something that could easily be resolved. “I need to let the young people enjoy sports whether its athletics, boxing or swimming,” said Tuwei. “Echesa is a former boxer and has good intentions for the game.” Tuwei called on the boxing fraternity to support Echesa and advised Kameta to run the game well until elections are held and a new office is in place. “Kameta is also an official at the continental body and his influence will be needed by the new team.” Tuwei noted that boxing is the only other sport apart from athletics that has brought Kenya glory and medals from Olympics and Commonwealth Games. Kameta declared that all is well between him and the Sports CS adding that people who were battling to mislead Echesa so that boxing is banned will be shamed. Kameta said the December 5 meeting for chairmen will discuss the case at the Sports Dispute Tribunal, National League that is remaining with one leg and pending elections. A week ago, Aiba warned the government from interfering with BAK elections. Aiba executive director Tom Virgets had indicated in a letter to Kameta that they only recognise Paul Mung’ori as BAK secretary general. Mung’ori was appointed BAK secretary general during BAK Council meeting that was convened by then the acting secretary general David Munuhe on August 24, this year at Kaloleni Social Hall. Mung’ori replaced Isaac Mbote, who had been suspended back in 2016 for missing executive committee meetings. BAK Council met again on September 26, this year to set November 16 as the date for elections. On November 6 this year, Sports Dispute Tribunal and Sports Registrar moved to stop BAK elections that were due November 16 this year in Nairobi. Sports Dispute Tribunal ordered BAK to convene for a Special General Meeting (SGM) immediately to plan for the elections that must be held within 60 days from November 6, this year. Sports Registrar Rose Wasike told BAK that the Cabinet Secretary for Sports Rashid Echesa had demanded for inspection of the organisation’s activities and a report submitted within two weeks from November 4, this year. BAK council met three weeks ago to set January 3 next year as the new date for elections. Two weeks later, Wasike moved to reinstate Mbote throwing both the administration at BAK and the National League into disarray. Mbote moved to change the fourth leg of the National Boxing League from Mwingi to Kakamega. That saw two championships being held in Kakamega and Mwingi simultaneously last week. Virgets said that BAK elections must be conducted in line with the BAK constitution and Aiba Statutes and insisted that the Council resolutions passed on August 24 and September 26 this year must be respected. “Any appeal should be launched through the established channels,” said Virgets.   Aiba insists that the BAK Council resolutions passed on August 24 and September 26 must be respected.