Champions Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) edged out Kenya Harlequin 22-13 while Mwamba ended Nondescripts’ unbeaten run, winning 13-12 on match day four of the Kenya Cup rugby league on Saturday. Kabras Sugar and Impala Saracens are now the only teams yet to lose this season after claiming vital wins to top the league. Kabras glided to their fourth bonus point victory, pummelling Strathmore Leos 62-13 at Madaraka while scrum-half Samson Onsomu’s penalty at the death handed Impala a 22-19 win against battling Mean Machine from the University of Nairobi at the RFUEA grounds. Homeboyz recovered from two consecutive defeats to edge out Menengai Oilers 31-28 at Nakuru ASK show grounds as Nakuru also rose from a previous defeat to crash visiting Blak Blad from Kenyatta University 42-22 at Nakuru Athletic Club. KCB scored three tries, two conversions and a penalty, to extend their unbeaten run against Quins for the third consecutive season. Quins managed a converted try, a penalty and drop goal. Forwards - skipper Curtis Lilako, Jacob Ojee and eighth-man Peter Waitere landed a try each as fullback Darwin Mukidza added the extras for KCB’s third victory this season. International fly-half William Reeves converted flanker Patrice Agunda’s try while Ugandan international Jasper Onen and Dominic Osino scored a drop goal and penalty respectively but it was all in vain for Quins. Quins coach Charles Cardovillis took the blame for the defeat saying he got a few combinations wrong. “It’s our fourth game and I now know what to do to rescue our fortunes in the next matches,” explained Cardovillis. “We dominated especially in the first half but failed in our execution in KCB’s 22m.” KCB coach Curtis Olago said it was bound to be tough playing Quins but thanked his boys for the vital win. “We had a sloppy first half and we should work on our mistakes.” Nondies, who had been reduced to 14 men, led 12-10 but Eugene Nzioka slotted over a penalty to hand Mwamba their first win of the season. Nondies had won their three opening matches; stunning Homeboyz 20-14 and KCB 27-22 before rolling over Menengai Oilers 28- 8. Impala Saracens head to Kakamega for a date with Kabras next weekend as Strathmore visit Blak Blad at Kenyatta University. KCB host Homeboyz at Ruaraka while Quins will be away to Nondies. Saturday results Mwamba 13-12 Nondies Machine 19-22 Impala KCB 22 -13 Quins Nakuru 42-22 Blak Blad Oilers 28-31 Homeboyz Strathmore 13-62 Kabras  