National Sevens rugby champions Laiser Hill and Upper Hill School, who are the national 15s rugby champions are among 12 schools nominated in the Boys School of the Year category in the 2018 Safaricom Sports Personality of the Year Awards (Soya). Kakamega High, who won their 13th national title, have also been nominated for the boys’ top accolades where the winners will be declared during the Soya Gala set for January 11 at the iconic Fort Jesus in Mombasa. Also battling for the award are Olbolsat, Sigalame, St Anthony Boys, Malava, Kapkenyeloi, St. Luke’s’ Kimilili, Musingu, Kanyawanga and Menengai. The 12 schools fielded various teams both at the national and at the East Africa level and aided Kenya in retaining the overall title at the regional competition. The schools have been selected for their commendable performance in various disciplines during the Kenya Secondary School Games held in Term One and Term Two this year. “Schools competition have once again been competitive this season but the nine schools were a cut above the rest,” said the panel of judges chairman James Wokabi. “My team will do its best to award the most deserving team and best of luck to all.” BASKETBALL CHAMPIONS The Gala that moves outside Nairobi for the first time is co-sponsored by Mombasa County, National Social Security Fund (NSSF), Communication Authority (CA), Kenya Pipeline, GOTv, LapFund, New KCC, Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) and Protel. Laiser Hill reclaimed the rugby sevens title at the national games held at Eldoret’s Hill School before clinching the EA title in Rwanda. Laiser Hill were also crowned the basketball champions at the national Term One games held in Kang’aru School, Embu, beating newbies Sigalame who went on to finish seventh at the regional games. Upper Hill won their maiden titles at both the national and East Africa games in rugby 15’s. They also fielded a hockey side and football under-16 team at the national games. Football powerhouse Kakamega won their 13th national title at the national level and went on to finish third in Rwanda while their rugby 15’s team picked bronze and silver at the two events respectively. Kakamega beat Olbolsat at the football under-19 national finals, the latter making their debut at this stage and booking a ticket to the EA games in their first attempt. Kapkenyeloi, make the cut having qualified for the national games for the first time and reached the finals where they lost to Malava in Volleyball. The latter picked Bronze at the EA competitions. Kimilili beat Kanyawanga in handball national finals to reclaim the title they had lost last year. Their hopes for a double were however crushed as they finished fifth at the EA games. St Anthony make the list as the national and EA hockey reigning champions. Musingu also made the list courtesy of their exploits in hockey.  