Harambee Stars are through to the 32nd edition of Africa Cup of Nations slated for June 15 to July 13, 2019, the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) president Nick Mwendwa said on Saturday. In a telephone interview, Mwendwa told Nation Sport that FKF was just waiting for an official letter from the Confederation of African Football (Caf) this week. “The Extraordinary meeting of the Executive Committee of Caf met in Accra, Ghana on Friday (November 30). One of the decisions made at the meeting was to remove Sierra Leone from the list of competitors in our group. We are now waiting for the official letter from Caf, but we have already qualified. We expect the letter from Caf this week,” Mwendwa said, before adding that FKF will hold a press conference once the letter is received to announce plans to prepare the Kenyan side, which is returning to the continental stage for the first time since 2004. Kenya and Ghana, which will battle for Group “F” top spot in March 2019 in Ghana, have joined Tunisia, Egypt, Senegal, Nigeria, Algeria, Morocco, Mali, Guinea, Uganda, Ivory Coast, Mauritania and Madagascar at the finals. Although, defending champions Indomitable Liones of Cameroon lost automatic qualification after being stripped off hosting rights during the Friday meeting, they are still in contention to clinch the remaining ticket from Group “B”. The Cameroonians currently lie in second spot with eight points, three more than third-ranked Comoros. These two will face off in March next year to decide who bags the ticket. Ever since Kenya took control of Group “F” after drawing 0-0 with Ethiopia in Awasa on October 10 and then beating them 3-0 in Nairobi on October 14, Kenyans have been eager to know the status of the group, especially after Fifa suspended Sierra Leone on October 5 on charges of government interference. The suspension led to the cancellation of back-to-back matches against Ghana, which were scheduled for October 10 and October 14 after Sierra Leone authorities failed to reinstate ousted Fotball Association president Isha Johansen and General Secretary Christopher Kamara by the October 9 deadline. However, Caf remained tight-lipped. Then, Caf cancelled the return leg match between Kenya and Sierra Leone, which was planned for November 18 at Kasarani after the suspension against Sierra Leone was not lifted. The removal of Sierra Leone from the group on November 30 meant that Kenya stayed on top with seven points from two wins and a draw. The East Africans defeated Ghana 1-0 in September to take control of the group. Ghana is one point behind Kenya in second place after whipping Ethiopia 5-0 in Kumasi in June last year and triumphed 2-0 in Addis Ababa two weeks ago. Ethiopia now has one point after losing the three points they clawed from beating Sierra Leone in September in Awasa. The winner of Group “F” will be known on March 22, 2019 when Kenya visits Ghana.   Kenya is assured of finishing within the top two places in Group "F".