Three counties in the North Rift have issued an alert following a hepatitis B outbreak that has claimed lives. Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo and West Pokot counties have been hit by the disease, yet most of their health facilities have inadequate vaccines for the disease. West Pokot Health Executive Geoffrey Lipale said there is an urgent need to vaccinate the locals. “The disease is dangerous. The rate at which it is spreading is alarming. We have partnered with the national government and there is a need to screen more people and vaccinate them,” he said. "We are currently mapping out the affected areas in Chepareria, Kacheliba, Alale, Miskwony and Kodich ahead of the vaccination," Mr Lipale said. He added that the residents' ignorance of the causes and treatment of the viral disease is a major challenge. VACCINATION He said the county, in partnership with the national government, has distributed 4,032 vaccine vials. Four people have died from the disease this year. In Elgeyo Marakwet, five people, including a county health worker, have died from the disease. Governor Alex Tolgos on Tuesday said that although the disease has not reached epidemic levels, there is an urgent need to vaccinate the residents. “We received 4,000 doses, which we have administered free of charge to people in the affected areas. So far we have vaccinated 5,000 residents across the four sub-counties, especially Kapsowar Ward, which has had casualties. We have also vaccinated 1,900 of our health staff because some of them become casualties of this disease in the course of duty,” the governor said. He noted that the county has lowered the price a full dose from Sh3,600 to Sh2,400. “Since we cannot cover the entire county due to inadequate resources, I appeal to our people to sacrifice and pay for the vaccination as a precaution, in case of contact with infected people,” Mr Tolgos said. TREATMENT And Baringo Public Health Chief Officer Winnie Bore said prevalence in the region stands at seven percent, with the hardest hit areas being Baringo South, Mogotio and the lower parts of Baringo North and Kerio Valley. She said the health department has started mapping all those who have died from the disease and those infected so that they can start treatment and vaccination. “We are targeting mostly families that have lost relatives in the past so that they can be tested and vaccinated,” Ms Bore said. She said those who test positive and those vaccinated will be given cards and registered for follow-up, as will those who lost relatives to the disease. “We have procured more than 19,000 doses from the national government, which will be enough for more than 10,000 people. We have also put enough drugs in the hotspots so that patients don't have to travel to the county referral hospitals,” she said.  