Differences between Wiper Chairman Kivutha Kibwana and party leader Kalonzo Musyoka have escalated, with the former now claiming that the latter cannot be trusted to develop Ukambani. The differences boiled over in November when Mr Musyoka’s declared himself as President Uhuru Kenyatta’s 'errand boy', sparking outrage from among others, Prof Kibwana. Although Prof Kibwana, the Makueni governor, reiterates that Ukambani is poised to develop more should its leaders forge a formal working relationship with the national government, he feels that Mr Musyoka is not the right entry point for such a working formula. “What some of us have objected to after our National Executive Council approval to work with the government is the fact that Mr Musyoka decided to negotiate while escorted by a few close buddies. The negotiations ceased to be a structured party to party affair and became personalised. This is why we asked for a broader platform after our entry into the 'Handshake deal'." He added: "This is why this time round we as the three governors of Ukambani — Charity Ngilu (Kitui), Alfred Mutua (Machakos) and Kibwana — wish, if possible, to also discuss development matters with the highest office of the land. We do not mind seeking development for our people as Mr Musyoka targets his 2022 presidential ambition,” he said in a statement yesterday. The governor was reacting to a Sunday Nation report in which Mr Musyoka portrays him and others faulting the deal he entered with President Kenyatta as insincere. Mr Musyoka exuded confidence that he is firmly in control of Ukambani, the region he hopes to use as a launch pad for his 2022 State House bid. The former VP has defended his declaration to work with President Kenyatta, a move that has divided Wiper. Those on Mr Musyoka’s side accuse Prof Kibwana’s camp of washing the community’s dirty linen in public. Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua led a faction of MPs and ward reps in condemning those questioning the deal at a rally attended by Mr Musyoka three weeks ago. Mr Musyoka also accuses Prof Kibwana of discussing party affairs on the streets, an accusation the governor did not take lying down. “I do not raise party matters haphazardly on the streets. There is a pattern. I get accused unfairly and I have to put the record straight.” He also accused Mr Musyoka of looking the other way when Wiper ward reps attack governors in the region.   Lawmakers threaten to work to ruin political careers of Kalonzo Musyoka's rivals in Ukambani.