The journey to settle former Kenyan freedom fighters has kicked off after the Dedan Kimathi Foundation paid the first part of Sh31 million to Mathira-Kahonoki-Gitaaraga Land Investment Company who are selling their land situated in Rimuruti, Laikipa County. The foundation plans to settle 3,455 surviving Mau Mau war veterans where each member will get a three-and-a-half acre piece of land by January 2019 after the foundation settles payment in accordance with the agreement. According to foundation’s director Evelyne Wanjugu Kimathi, who is the daughter of Mau Mau freedom fighter Field Marshall Dedan Kimathi, the land cost Sh2.1 billion and will be paid for in three phases. AGREEMENT Speaking last week when the foundation signed the transaction fee agreement with the officials of the land company, Ms Kimathi described the first transaction as a major stride in honouring the war veterans whom she said were never settled by the government even after fighting for the freedom of the country. “Today marks a major milestone in honouring the freedom fighters [who hoped] they would be accorded a grand entry from the forest after successfully winning the battle with our colonisers,” she said. She explained that she came up with the idea of mobilising funds to purchase the land after seeing the predicaments of the former freedom fighters, most of whom had no land of their own. 11 COUNTIES She said the foundation was formed with the assistance of the surviving Mau Mau war veterans who are the coordinators in the 11 counties where they draw membership with each member contributing Sh5,000 for the share of land. On his part, Peter Machiri, the honorary secretary of the investments company, said the Sh31 million was the commitment fee for the sale, adding that the foundation will be expected to pay another Sh200 million in 30 days, which is the down payment. “We have received Sh31 million which is the commitment fee. The agreement now requires the foundation to settle 10 percent of the total amount which is Sh200 million in 30 days for them to be allowed to start fencing off the land and do other activities. “After settling the 10 percent, we have agreed with them that they will settle the remaining balance within 90 days,” Mr Machiri said. Mrs Mukami Kimathi, the wife of the late Dedan Kimathi, witnessed the ceremony. She said they had visited many offices seeking assistance for the war veterans to no avail. GLAD “I’m glad that that the colleagues of my late husband will be settled after years of waiting and suffering and I’m overjoyed to witness this exercise that marks the beginning of good things to come,” she said. She called on the government to chip in and help the foundation in settling the war veterans. Her daughter said the foundation has been approaching the government to sell them land whose leaseholds have expired for them to settle the veterans. “We have requested the government to give the foundation plots whose leaseholds have expired like the 12-acre piece of land along Mombasa Road worth Sh80 million and other idle lands in Muthaiga and Ruaka areas,” she said. She observed that most of the families live in abject poverty despite their immense contribution to the freedom struggle and independence of the country. She said her foundation has been in talks with the Kenyan and British governments over the settlement plans.   Ms Kimathi says her foundation has attracted close to 5,000 members from across 11 counties.