KCB women's volleyball team have sent a strong statement about their intentions of reclaiming their glory days. The nine times East and Central Africa Champions officially presented their new signings ahead of the 2019 campaign on Friday. They have also lured experienced coach Japheth Munala back into their fold as they look to end the dominance of Kenya Prisons and Kenya Pipeline. KCB finished second at the just concluded season behind Kenya Prisons, who reclaimed the title from rivals Kenya Pipeline. The seven players include Leonida Kasaya, Noel Murambi, 2018 Most Valuable Player Violet Makuto, centre player Christine Njambi, setter Veronica Kilabat, Jemima Siangu and left attacker Truphosa Chepkemei. Munala is confident that the new-look squad will boost the much required depth needed to compete in both the local and international stage. “The current KCB squad has got the best back court defence in Kenya, the new players will complete the remaining puzzle in the blocks and attacks”, said Munala. The squad boast of experienced Malkia strikers star Violet Makuto, who has been a regular starter for the last six years. Makuto started playing volleyball at Kulumbeni Primary school in Malava before moving to Malava Girls High School as centre player in 2008. She led her team to four successive East and Central championship titles between 2009 to 2012. “Discipline is key as well being focused to succeed in volleyball. I am very happy to join KCB and I am looking forward to greater performances with the team," said Makuto. Another key signing is 24-year-old Leonida Kasaya, who has been instrumental during national duties in Cameroon and Japan World Championship in 2018. The left attacker is envisaging to grab major honours with KCB. “I am really happy to join KCB, I will work harder to put the team on national and global map," said Kasaya.The bankers will be relying on 23-year-old setter Veronica Kilabat to halt the flow of opponents games as the 2019 season gets underway. Nineteen-year-old Jemimah Siangu will be featuring regularly as a left attacker for KCB partnering with Leonida Kasaya, Noel Murambi and Truphosa Chepkemei. “It a great moment for me to join KCB ladies team, we want to make them invincible," said Jemima. The bankers are set to resume training on Monday before breaking away the festivities.  