Detectives are interrogating three people linked to the abduction of an Italian volunteer Silvia Romano and injury of five people at Chakama in Kilifi County last month.Mr Dumal Haji Osman and Mr Hassan Borow Khamis were arrested last Saturday at a forest in Asa Kone, Tana River County, while allegedly trying to supply food to the abductors. SH1M BOUNTYThe third suspect, Ms Rukia Nuno, the wife of Mr Said Adan Abdi — one of the three key suspects in the abduction with a Sh1 million bounty on his head — was arrested in Tarasaa village in Garsen, Tana River County.Police Monday presented Mr Osman, Mr Khamis and Ms Nuno before Malindi Chief Magistrate Julie Oseko to request for more days to enable them complete their investigations.The magistrate directed police to detain the three until December 14. MEDICATIONIn the application, Chief Inspector Peter Muriithi said a Toyota Fielder motor vehicle belonging to the two men was recovered deep in the forest but it has not been processed by forensic experts from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations.“We believe the two wanted to supply food and medication to the attackers since they have been adversely mentioned in the kidnapping of the Italian woman,” the detective said. TERRORISTSMr Muriithi said the investigations cover Mombasa, Kilifi, Tana River and Garissa counties and Somalia, saying the abductors could be trying to cross over to Somalia with Ms Romano. “The three are likely to face charges for the offences of aiding and abetting the commission of a terrorist act contrary to the law and conspiracy to commit a terrorist act,” he added. DELIBERATELast week, the government incorporated the pastoralist Oroma community in Tana River County in an operation to track and rescue the Italian social worker.The Tana River security team led by County Commissioner Oning’oi ole Sosio, together with Garsen MP Ali Wario and Senator Jumwa Wario, on Monday held a baraza with the Oroma community at Bombi to deliberate on how to rescue the Italian and arrest the culprits. LIVESTOCKThe unknown gunmen on November 20 kidnapped Ms Romano, 23, a manager of a non-governmental organisation known as African Milele Onlus and wounded five locals.During the baraza, some locals said they saw the attackers criss-crossing Matolani and Hawa Wanje. When asked about their mission, they lied that they were looking for their lost livestock. The suspects were first seen at Matolani, tens of kilometres from Chakama Trading Centre, before travelling towards the north.Other suspects with Sh1 million bounties on their heads each are Mr Ibrahim Adan Omar and Mr Yusuf Kuno Adan.   The whereabouts of Silvia Romano are unknown.