Windsor Golf Hotel and Country Club’s Taimur Malik recovered from a string of bogeys at the back nine, to produce an impressive score of two over part 74 in the first round of this year’s Royal Junior Strokeplay golf championship at Royal Nairobi Golf Club on Sunday. Malik started well by picking up two birdies at the second and seventh holes, but dropped a shot at the eighth to cross to the back nine on one under par. The back nine was not however smooth as Malik three back to back holes from the 10th, dropped one more at the par five-14th. He recovered one at the 15th but again dropped a shot at the 16th, to grab a three shots lead. On the other hand, Muthaiga Golf Club’s on form Zubair Khan fired five over par 77 to close round one just a shot better than club-mate Emmanuel Njuguna. On his was way for his 77, Khan picked up three bogeys on the third, fifth and sixth in the opening nine, and dropped more shots at the 11th, 14th and 16th with only one birdie at the par five-15th. Njuguna on the other dropped three shots in a row on the eighth, ninth and at the 10th, picked up a double at the 12th, followed that with a single bogey at the 13th though he managed to recover one shot back at the par five-14th only to drop it at the 17th for a 78 in the first round. Chasing the top three, was another Muthaiga junior Njoroge Kibugu who carded eight over par 80 to tie with Dubai based Bradley Mogire while tying for fifth place was Mutahi Kibugu of Muthaiga and Nyali’s 12 year old Andrew Wahome, a young brother of South Africa based Mathew Wahome on 81 gross. In the nett category, Vet Lab Sports Club’s Shonay Shah produced an excellent 64 nett to lead Nyali’s Andrew Wahome by four shots. In third place was Kaisan Viran who carded nett 71 with Golf Park’s 10 year old Belinda Wanjiru firing nett 72. The second round of the 54-hole event was still on at the time of writing. Meanwhile during the annual Father and Son Golf tournament also played at the par 72 Royal course at the weekend, Baljit Sokhi and Ranjiv Sokhi carded 35 points to win by one point from the pair of Oscar Ikinu and Wambugu Ikinu who took the second prize following a countback with Graham Shaw and Callum Shaw. Taking the Parent and Child prize was the pair Dorcas Munge and David KIllinkoy with an excellent score of 40 points. They won by three points from the pair of Hellene Gatiramu and Korby Gatiramu who posted 37 points. Joyce Wafula and Richard Wafula were third on 36 points. Leading the sponsors was the team of Shamit Shah and Shonay Shah with a score of 34 points.  