The national government’s plan to give first priority for employment opportunities to the youth in Lamu County at Lamu Port-South Sudan-Ethiopia Transport (Lapsset) Corridor project might not be achieved as many are reportedly shying away from the port jobs. A recent report by the Lapsset office of public works on employment at the port in Kililana in Lamu West indicates that very few youths from Lamu County are working there, majority of whom quit shortly after employment. Speaking at the Lapsset site in Kililana, Public Works Principal Secretary Paul Maringa revealed that out of the 1,200 youths who are currently taking part in the ongoing construction works at the port, only 50 are from Lamu while the rest are sourced from other counties including Kilifi and Mombasa. UNEMPLOYMENT According to the Lapsset Corridor Development Authority, the new Lamu port is a key solution tin eliminating the high unemployment rates in the county. The project has the capacity to create over 200,000 jobs for the unemployed youths from across the country upon completion. Mr Maringa said even at the construction phase, a lot of employment consideration is being given to the youths, especially those from Lamu which is the host county. He expressed disappointment that very few local youths are willing to work at the port at the moment. He called on parents in the region to encourage their children to come out and seek employment at the port. GO TO SCHOOL He also challenged the parents to send their children to school so that they can acquire skills that will be necessary for them to be employed by Lapsset once the project is complete. “We are happy that the port construction is going on well here at Kililana. The government is committed to ensure the port is viable. As government we are also putting into consideration the local youth here in terms of employment. I am however disappointed by the number of local youths working at the port at the moment. “Our statistics indicate that only 50 youth out of the 1,200 already employed as casual labourers here are from Lamu. I am told many of the natives are unwilling to work and even if they are provided with the opportunity, they always run away. That’s a bad picture and we call on parents to encourage their children to work hard in life,” said Mr Maringa. UNFORTUNATE Lamu West MP Stanley Muthama said it is unfortunate that majority of those employed as labourers at the Lapsset project are from outside the county. He said as leaders, they have done their duty in pushing the government to ensure the first priority is given to the local youths especially in all the projects undertaken by the national government in the region. “We have done our best as leaders to enlighten our community to embrace education. We have also been pushing the government to give first priority in terms of employment to our youth in the region. We will continue to do that so that the projects can directly benefit our community. My message to the youth here is that they should not let their leaders down. They should go to where the projects are taking place to get employed,” said Mr Muthama. The Nation sought to establish the reasons why the youth in Lamu are shying away from the Lapsset jobs. TOO FAR Mr Ali Mohamed from Lamu Old Town told said that Kililana is too far from the Island, adding that they are required to work for long hours every day. Mr Mohamed also said he is not willing to work for the long hours with little pay. “You’re supposed to report to work by 8am and sometimes forced to work until late in the night. Lamu Old Town is far. In addition, a casual labourer is being paid only Sh400 and the work done is very hard with strict supervision. Its better I stay in Lamu Town. I can get a boat here and be a coxswain,” said Mr Mohamed. Mr Abdalla Omar of Kashmir says many of the Lamu youths prefer working only for certain reasons after which they quit the job. “Some of us go to Lapsset to work in order to get money to buy something. My problem was to get a smart phone. I joined the Lapsset last month and after getting enough cash, I bought the phone and left the job. I have parents who are taking care of me,” said Mr Omar.  