Former President Daniel arap Moi has urged Kenyans to continue praying for peace and national unity as they step into the new year. Mzee Moi, in his New Year message on Monday, expressed gratitude that 2018 ended with peace and tranquillity prevailing. UHURU PRAISE The ex-president praised President Uhuru Kenyatta for boldness in embracing like-minded leaders to ensure solidarity and harmony among all. President Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga shocked Kenyans and the world when they announced a unity deal on March 9. After a prolonged presidential election, which many feared would result in violence, they shook hands on the footsteps of Harambee House in Nairobi and said they had buried the hatchet for the sake of national peace, unity and growth. Through his Press Secretary Lee Njiru, Mr Moi said, "Let 2019 be a year of peace, solidarity and economic development. I wish all Kenyans, at home and in the diaspora, happiness and prosperity." The former Head of State further urged the public to support President Kenyatta in his peace initiatives, both at home and in the region. He said unity is key to ensuring Kenya improves its economy and living standards. “No country can attain appreciable development without peace,” said Mr Moi, who ruled Kenya for 24 years, between 1978 and 2002. The former president will usher in the new year with his family at his Kabarak home in Nakuru County. He has not actively engaged in politics but has met key leaders including the president, Orange Democratic leader Raila Odinga , Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, Central Organization of Trade Unions Secretary-General Francis Atwoli, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka and State House Comptroller Kinuthia Mbugua. GIDEON'S MESSAGE Mr Moi's message came after that of his son Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, who is Kanu party's national chairman. Senator Moi urged Kenyans to embrace Mr Kenyatta and Mr Odinga's handshake and embrace selflessness and unity. President Kenyatta earlier urged Kenyans to continue praying for peace and national unity in 2018. He noted that unity is key to ensuring the country improves its economy and its people's living standards. “We are, after all, one family called the Kenyan people and the Kenyan nation. We must learn to live, work together and respect one another for the purpose of making Kenya a great nation,” he said. The president addressed hundreds of faithful for Sunday mass at St Francis of Assisi Catholic Church in Nyali, Mombasa.   ANC boss warns that Kenya is heading to its economic deathbed.