Prisons Kenya claimed a controversial 3-1 (25-14, 30-28, 14-25, 25-20) win over Kenya Ports Authority to revive their hopes of reclaiming the Kenya Volleyball Federation National League title from rivals General Service Unit on Sunday. Prisons’ maximum points puts the warders right back into contention as a 3-2 win would have gifted GSU with the 2018 title with a match to spare. KPA will have to blame themselves after putting in yet another impressive performance with no points in their bag. A relieved Prisons coach Paul Muthinja attributed his team success to sound tactics. “We improved our services, reception and blocks which really helped us today. We have to be cautious against GSU because we gave away too many points,” he said. In the opposite corner, KPA tactician Samson Sunguti blamed “biased officiating” for his team’s loss. “We would have done better with fair officiating. This was a shoddy performance from an international referee. He got too many calls wrong especially when we were on the ascendancy. Such mistakes are totally unacceptable in the play-offs where a lot is at stake. Our sponsors have invested a lot for this team to be here and for a referee to decide your fate it’s a shame. We were clearly the better team but the referee had other ideas. We deserved to win,” fumed Sunguti. KPA protested bitterly decisions made by first referee Charles Wambua and his assistant Patrick Wangila in the fiery encounter played at Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani. James Ontere and David Thuita were the Dockers brightest sparks as they unsuccessfully attempted to overcome a stubborn Prisons Kenya side. The match was halted at some point as KPA continued to protest the referees’ performance in the evening encounter. It took the intervention of KVF Vice President Charles Nyaberi for play to resume. The result sees Prisons move to second place with four points, two behind GSU who have six. KDF are third with two points while KPA remain bottom without a point.  