Brazilian football superstar Neymar Junior has been appointed as Qatar National Bank (QNB) global brand ambassador. The partnership with the Paris Saint Germain (PSG) player gives QNB Group, the largest financial institution in the Middle East and Africa, all exclusive marketing rights of Neymar Jr as a Brand Ambassador of all the Group’ s marketing campaigns and advertising platforms in which he will appear across its major businesses. Mr Yousef Darwish, General Manager of QNB Group Communications said that the agreement with the football star is a reflection of the bank's commitment to enriching the lives of its customers through its growing network of international branches around the world and motivating them to persevere and pursue their dreams through the inspiring image of an exceptional player. Neymar Jr has an extraordinary social-media presence; where he boasts a total follower count across Facebook, Twitter and Instagram around 209 million and has also been named as one of the 100 most influential people in the world. The GM explained that the partnership underpins the bank’s key values that reflect its commitment and passion to provide its global community of customers around the world with the best banking products and raise its Sh420 trillion (US $4.2bn) valued brand’s visibility in support of its vision to become a leading bank in the Middle East, Africa, and Southeast Asia by 2020. “We are delighted to welcome Neymar to the QNB family; a man who shares many of the same values with our brand and who is always looking for opportunities to reach greatness. “This partnership with Neymar Jr enhances our brand awareness in international markets, where QNB puts great devotions, in line with our global business strategy, and further strengthens our leading efforts to develop the communities where we operate across our growing international network,” added Mr Darwish, during the signing ceremony held at QNB branch in Paris, France. Mr Neymar Silva Santos, Neymar Junior’s father and owner of NR Sport and Marketing, said that they are happy to support QNB’s efforts to bring football community together through football and inspire people not to only pursue success but challenges, to be better. “We are very pleased to be partnering with QNB. Neymar Jr shares the same values with QNB and its constant pursuit of excellence and achieving great results in every game,” he said.QNB Group sponsors various initiatives and sports programs in a number of countries as part of CSR programs across its international branches. The Group’s presence through its subsidiaries and associate companies now extends to more than 31 countries across three continents providing a comprehensive range of advanced products and services. The total number of employees is around 29,000 operating through more than 1,200 locations, with an ATM network of more than 4,300 machines.  