Long distance runner Matthew Kisorio has called on fellow sportsmen and women to learn from his failed doping predicament and strive to win clean at any given sport. The 29-year-old Kisorio, who would spend close to an estimated Sh5 million annually to party with and treat friends, said he turned into an outcast after he was sanctioned for two years for doping after testing positive for a banned substance during the National Athletics Championships on June 14, 2012. Kisorio narrated his ordeal and experience to participants at the ongoing Athletics Kenya Athletes’ Conference at Safari Park, Nairobi telling of how a fellow athlete misled him to taking the lethal injection after he was involved in an accident in early 2012. “I had gone for treatment but things turned out different when I reached the clinic. The athlete told me I would run well and even win many events at the Diamond League if the jab was administered,” said Kisorio. “I ended up regretting that moment but that is all behind me and I want fellow athletes to learn from it.” Kisorio said that he vowed to save the game by revealing to Athletics Kenya and Directorate of Criminal Investigation (DCI) officers about the clinic and the doctors who were involved but everything backfired on him. “That time doping wasn’t prevalent like it is today but I was disappointed by AK and the police officers since they took no action event after my efforts,” said the soft-spoken Kisorio, the Team Kenya captain for the 2008 World Under-20 Championships in Bydgoszcz, Poland where he won silver in 5,000m “I was so disappointed that they didn’t take me seriously. May be things would have been different now,” explained, Kisorio who hastened to add that athletes are solely responsible for any substances they allow into their bodies. Kisorio said that he never achieved anything when he doped compared to when he was running clean. “I finished third at that particular National Championships when doping officers picked me,” explained Kisorio adding that his coach Claudio Berardelli and manager Federico Rosa by then were not aware of what he had done. “I feel sad that they took so much criticism for what they didn’t know,” said Kisorio, who would fielded questions from participants a majority of whom commended him for his boldness in speaking out about what happened and advocating for clean running. Kisorio also advised athletes that it is wise for them to be attending such forums as they are vital to their careers. Athletics Kenya Nairoi branch chairman Barnaba Korir, who doubles up as the head of youth and development, hinted at the possibility of the federation appointing Kisorio as an Anti-Doping Ambassador. Korir said by the time of Kisorio’s failed test, there were no doping laws and his case was complicated by the unavailability of tangible evidence to pin down the clinic and doctors that were involved. “Right now we have Anti-Doping Laws where doctors and chemists that peddle banned substances are liable for three years in jail and a Sh3 million fine,” said Korir. Renowned coach Patrick Sang and Professor Mike Boit both of whom lectured the athletes on career development, sports and education, also commended Kisorio for his bold move saying it will help fight doping.  