The selection of 999,371 Form One students who will join extra-county, county and sub- county schools started Wednesday morning across the country and will end on Friday. The selection is being conducted in 10 regions under the supervision of senior Ministry of Education officials among them Principal Secretary Belio Kipsang. In the North Rift, the selection is taking place at Moi Girls High School Eldoret and participating counties are Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi, Turkana and West Pokot while in the Coast region it is at Coast Girls High school and covers Mombasa, Kilifi, Kwale, Tana River, Taita Taveta and Lamu. SOUTH RIFT In the South Rift, Dr Kipsang is supervising the selection at Afraha High School and covers Kericho, Bomet, Nakuru,Narok , Baringo, Samburu and Laikipia. In Kisumu, the exercise is at Kisumu Polytechnic and covers Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Kisii, Nyamira and Migori. In Kakamega, the selection is being done at Kakamega High School and covers Kakamega, Vihiga, Busia and Bungoma counties while the Metropolitan region that covers Nairobi, Kiambu and Kajiado the conducting its selection is at Mang’u High School. CENTRAL The selection for Central region, which includes Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang’a and Nyandarua, is being done at Nyeri Technical Institute while Machakos region which covers Machakos, Kitui and Makueni is doing the same at Machakos Boys High School. Garissa, Wajir and Mandera counties are selecting students at NEP Girls High school while Meru region that comprises of Embu, Tharaka-Nithi, Meru, Marsabit and Isiolo is doing the selection at Kaaga High School. EXTRA-COUNTY SCHOOLS A total of 128,838 students will be selected to join extra-counties schools while county schools will admit 148,215 students. Sub-county schools will admit the highest number at 722,318 while special needs schools will take in 1,626 students. Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed said reporting dates for all Form Ones in all categories of schools will be January 7 and not later than January 11. “As I announced during the release of the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) examination results, there will be no second selection. There is, therefore, no reason for parents to delay their children from reporting to school on the [given] dates,” said Ms Mohamed on Monday.   Those who will join national schools will be the first to know the institutions where they will be admitted.