Embu Governor Martin Wambora and a section of Jubilee MCAs are in Mombasa ostensibly to iron out a stand-off between the executive and the ward reps, which has seen four chief officers suspended. The governor has sought the intervention of the Jubilee Party headquarters to whip errant party MCAs and mediate in talks aimed at reconciling both parties. Three weeks ago, MCAs unanimously suspended four chief officers who are close to Mr Wambora, accusing them of incompetence, abuse of office and violation of the law. STEP ASIDE They ruled that Ruth Ndirangu (Finance), Grace Murithi (Health), Samuel Wachira (Youth Empowerment) and Jerevasio Mbogo Muchungu (Education) should immediately step aside pending investigations into their conduct. The motion was moved by Evurore MCA Duncan Mbui, who was elected on a Jubilee Party ticket, and was supported by majority of the party MCAs, among them Chief Whip Judy Mbuya. The chief officers have since moved to court and got temporary orders stopping their suspension until the case is heard. Earlier on, the MCAs had impeached Chief Whip Lorna Kariuki and replaced her with Ms Mbuya. BUDGET They then voted to stop the operations of the Budget and Appropriations Committee after two MCAs moved to court and obtained orders that they be included in the committee. The November 14 move plunged the county into a crisis as it stopped the budget making process, the county integrated development plan and crippled key fiscal undertakings. The dissenting MCAs then proceeded on a tour of Arusha, Tanzania where it is believed that they hardened their resolve to frustrate the executive. Details of the two-day meeting being held at Sai Rock hotel are scanty, with most of the MCAs saying they are still in the dark about the meeting. “I was told that it is training by the party headquarters but they didn’t give any details. There is also a cocktail slated for Friday. I am on my way there,” said Mr Mbui. NOT INVITED Efforts to reach Mr Wambora were not successful since his phone was switched off while Deputy Governor David Kariuki said he had not been invited to the meeting yet he is part of the executive. “I don’t know where it is taking place or the details of what is being discussed. I, however, support any meeting between the leaders if it will improve the relationship between the executive and the MCAs. I pray that they have fruitful deliberations,” he said. At the same time, Mr Kariuki said he is not bothered by failure to invite him, saying he has a cordial relationship with his boss who had on Wednesday assigned him to take Chinese investors on a tour of various parts of the county. MEETING AGENDA Embu Senator Njeru Ndwiga said the Mombasa meeting had been called by the Jubilee secretariat and was addressed by two party directors. “The issue of the executive and the MCAs has been discussed and I can say that the meeting is going on well. It is to discuss the issues on the ground. The row between MCAs and the executive was part of the agenda. It is going on well,” he said by phone. Mr Wambora had on Jamhuri Day extended an olive branch to the MCAs, saying he is ready for dialogue. He later expressed disappointment saying the MCAs’ hard-line stance is hurting county’s development. “The MCAs want me to do all these projects yet they have not yet passed the budget. I don’t want to break the law because the budget making process has not yet kicked off. They must do it by the end of December,” Mr Wambora told farmers at Mburugu Dairy Cooperative Society last week.  