Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed has now moved to defuse tension in the education sector by giving clarity on implementation of the new curriculum. It is on course, although that the rollout starts in 2020 and not next year as earlier envisioned. The declaration yesterday puts to rest the confusion that arose early in the week after the Education minister made a presentation to a parliamentary committee in which she reportedly stated that the programme was being put on hold, eliciting strong protests all round. Right from the outset, it must be pointed out that the debacle demonstrates the dangers of poor communication. The statement was not a creation of the media. Ms Mohamed has not been forthright in the way she articulates matters of the new curriculum as she leaves room for misinterpretation. Henceforth, she must be categorical and communicate clearly and get the correct message out to the public. CHALLENGES Essentially, there is change in tack. The Competence Based Curriculum will undergo further piloting next year in readiness for execution in 2020. This is informed by independent evaluation that has established glaring gaps that need to be fixed. Among these are poor teacher preparation, inadequate teaching and learning resources, poor school infrastructure, large class sizes, teacher shortage and lack of funds. Even so, these are not unique to the new curriculum. They represent the real challenges afflicting schools on any given day. And that leads to a bigger question: What is the level of investment in education? Public education is practically in bad shape. RESOURCES Free primary education that was introduced in 2003, and the subsidised secondary education which started in 2009, have not fixed the problems in schools. Enrolments have grown exponentially but without commensurate resources to guarantee quality. What the evaluation has established is that outside the new curriculum, the Kenyan child is getting a raw deal in school. Unfortunately, the government has not applied itself fully in addressing this challenge. Having determined a new time frame, the task ahead is to do all that is necessary to prepare the ground for take-off. STRENGTH We cannot continue changing goalposts every year because of institutional failures. For example, key requirements such as the sessional paper to anchor the new education system in law and policy were not finalised because of sheer procrastination. That is unacceptable. The new curriculum has widely been described as progressive, learner-centred and practical-oriented. It portends the future for the country and it has to be implemented. After 34 years of offering the 8-4-4, evidence has accumulated demonstrating its weaknesses and inability to provide the competencies for the new world order characterised by fast technological development and serious economic challenges.  