Slain former Kilifi Deputy governor Kenneth Kamto will be laid to rest on Wednesday. Preparations for his burial have been going on at his Nyali house since his death on Wednesday. Mr Kamto will be buried in Bejana village, Kilifi County, according to a team arranging the burial. Investigations into the shocking murder of the politician-cum-businessman are ongoing and detectives are looking into possibility of a business deal gone sour that led to his murder. It is believed in the course of his businesses, Mr Kamto crossed paths of many people if not all, picking along the route, friends and enemies. Detectives revealed to Nation that before his death, Mr Kamto was not in good terms with some of his business associates. For instance, detectives said a recent business deal between Mr Kamto and one of his clients went awry leading to a row. “We have information that a man leased his borehole drilling machine at a cost of Sh7 million. The machine could not work where it was supposed to and when the client wanted to change the venue for the work Mr Kamto refused and never refunded the money,” said the officer who sought anonymity as he is not allowed to speak to the press. At the same time, a deal of Sh47 million was underway between Mr Kamto and his business partners from Uganda, the source said. The Nation also learnt that the late former deputy governor and a co-accused Kennedy Ngala were facing charges of obtaining money by false presence. The duo had in October appeared before Shanzu Senior Principal Magistrate Diana Mochache where they denied the charges. Police investigating Mr Kamto’s murder said they are interrogating many people as they try to unearth the motive behind his killing on Wednesday morning. Among those who will be summoned is a woman who was last with him at a club in Nyali on the night he was killed. Before he was shot at Mr Kamto had visited two clubs in the Nyali suburb. Homicide detectives from Nairobi are helping with the investigations.   Gangsters accost Kamto as he enters his Nyali home and shoot him dead.