Residents in terror-prone areas of Lamu County have identified Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) soldiers and other security officers deployed in the multi-agency’s Operation Linda Boni as their 2018 heroes. Besides fighting off Al-Shabaab militants hiding in Boni Forest, the KDF soldiers have gone out of their way to provide humanitarian assistance to the locals. In 2018, KDF provided free medical camps to over 3,000 locals within the operation area. Recently, the soldiers saved the life of a pregnant woman from Mangai village by airlifting her to the King Fahad County Hospital where she delivered twins. The soldiers have also been distributing water to the locals and have dug several boreholes. Their efforts have thus won the hearts and minds of the locals, who are key in the fight against the Al-Shabaab militants.   AIRLIFT On Christmas Eve, Mwananua Mahazi had experienced labour pains for four consecutive days without any help. Her hopes for a successful delivery were fading and she knew it would be difficult to get aid in her remote Mangai village, which is deep inside Boni Forest, Lamu East. After learning of her ordeal, the soldiers flew to the remote village and airlifted her to King Fahad County Hospital in Lamu Town. There she safely delivered healthy twins soon after her arrival. Mwananua is now a happy woman. She said: "I am more than humbled to have been assisted by the KDF soldiers who managed to bring me here at King Fahad County Hospital. If it were not for them taking me to hospital in their chopper, we would be talking another story. In fact, I would probably have died considering how severe my situation was. Surely, they are more than friends."   Her story is among many that have cheered the hearts of hundreds of locals, particularly those living within the security operation area. Locals, most of them from Boni community, have little access to appropriate medical care, schools and other key amenities. For example, villagers in Mangai, Basuba, Milimani, Mararani, Kiangwe, Bodhei and other places within Boni Forest walk for long distances to access hospitals since many of the dispensaries have been closed or lack medical supplies.   EXPLOSION Villagers who were interviewed by the Nation in various parts of Boni Forest on Sunday could not hide their joy over what the KDF soldiers have been doing throughout the year. The soldiers constantly risk their lives to deliver key services to the locals. On August 29 this year, five KDF soldiers were killed and 10 others injured when their vehicle ran over an improvised explosive device suspected to have been planted by Al-Shabaab militants at Sankuri on the Kiunga-Hindi road. The soldiers were on a mission to distribute water to the residents in the area when the attack occurred. IMPROVED RELATIONS Residents told the Nation that as they cross over to 2019, they cannot forget the security agencies efforts to improve their living standards. “The KDF and other security agencies operating in Boni Forest have managed to restore normalcy and bring peace to our region. "This year, we have experienced very few attacks, attempts and subsequent killings by Al-Shabaab militants compared to other years. To be sincere, KDF have been our great friends and heroes in 2018 and we are looking forward to an even better working relationship come 2019,” Basuba chief Yusuf Nuri said. Mr Noya Buli, a local, said he was happy that the community’s relationship with the security agencies has generally improved. “Earlier, we used to view the security agents, particularly KDF, as our enemies and agents of harassment. We are happy that through provision of the humanitarian aids, the locals here in Boni Forest have been drawn closer to them. Sometimes we even board their vehicles when moving from one place to another. They’re our friends,” Mr Buli said. 'WINNING HEARTS' In an interview with Nation on Sunday, Operation Linda Boni Operation Director Joseph Kanyiri said KDF soldiers have been keen to ensure the villagers living in and outside the forest get access to treatment, education, water and food. Mr Kanyiri urged communities to continue working closely with the security agencies and make the already existing relationship even better in 2019. “Apart from maintaining security in Boni Forest, the soldiers and all our security agencies involved have played an important role in the residents' welfare. They have done us proud. "The terrain and dynamics of asymmetrical warfare are no easy, but they have risen above these challenges to restore normalcy in Lamu and others areas within the wider operation,” Mr Kanyiri observed.   Koreni village is home to over 600 residents, mostly herders from the Somali community.