Sports clubs have received an early New Year's gift with news of the reopening of the Nyayo National stadium next month. Sports Ministry Principal Secretary, Ambassador Kirimi Kaberia has said they are in the process of delivering the facility to the public. “We might have a test match there, I will consult if it’s possible but we should be in a good position to use it,” Kaberia said. “We might not have many matches there this month because the grass is still young with patches ruined by the boots still under repair.” Kenya’s second-largest stadium has been inaccessible since last year undergoing renovations that were completed in time to host the 51st Jamhuri Day celebrations on December 12. Morocco-based company Gregori International, which worked on the pitch at the Moi International Sports Centre (MISC), Kasarani, has laid the Nyayo playing surface with Bermuda grass. The lifts were fitted at the VVIP Dias with a new office block constructed, while the changing rooms were relocated from below the VIP dais to the left side of the stadium. The 30,000-seater faciltiy is now accessible also to persons with disabilities after the renovations that cost the government about Sh700 million. The ministry expects to have a canopy around the stadium by March with installation of the seats also in the pipeline. Nyayo was expected to be re-opened in July last year but since the Confederation of African Football (Caf) stripped Kenya of the 2018 African Nations Championship hosting rights in September last year, work stalled until last month. Kenyan giants Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards are some of the clubs that registered the stadium as one of their home venues. “This is good news if we can be able to use the stadium once more because it will increase fan turn out due to its proximity with surrounding estates compared to venues outside Nairobi that has forced fans to part with a lot of money as transport to watch matches,” AFC Leopards organizing Secretary Timothy Lilumbi told Nation Sport.  