An uneasy calm has returned to volatile villages in Narok South Sub-county following ethnic clashes that left one person dead, 15 injured and 25 houses torched. The clashes broke out in Ololoipang’i, Oloruasi and Nkoben villages at the weekend, reports indicating that they were triggered by the theft of a cow. POLICE PATROLS On Monday, Narok County Commissioner George Natembeya reported that no fresh cases of violence had been reported due to heavy police presence. Police officers were deployed to patrol the area and the government imposed a dusk-to-dawn curfew. The curfew was imposed in Ololoipang’i, Nkoben Osananguriri and Oloruasi. Leaders and security officials earlier warned that they will crack the whip on the perpetrators. Governor Samuel Tunai, who spoke at the annual interdenominational church service at Olchorro in Narok North on Sunday, called for tough action against those behind the violence. “This is a period of festivities that residents should be enjoying. We do not want any more bloodshed. Security agencies should take measures to restore calm,” he said and asked the fighting communities to live harmoniously. RECURRENCE Narok North MP Motalel ole Kenta also condemned the renewed violence between the Maasai and Kipsigis communities and accused the government of laxity in finding a permanent solution. "We are concerned by the resurgence of the violence barely three months after [a similar case] This is unacceptable so the government should up its game," said the legislator. Interior Chief Administrative Secretary Patrick ole Ntutu said the government had taken actions including deploying police and investigating politicians suspected to be behind the fighting. “There is no reason to fight against each other because the missing cow was found," he said at Solabwek African Gospel Church, adding there will be no sacred cow in the probe. He asked politicians not to issue statement likely to jeorpadise peace efforts.   Narok County Commissioner George Natembeya links violence to a cattle theft incident.