Two people have died Sunday morning after a 14-seater matatu they were travelling in was involved in a crash at Total Junction on the Nakuru-Eldoret highway. At least thirteen others sustained serious injuries after the matatu collided with a truck. The two vehicles were heading to Nakuru from Eldoret when the crash happened. According to Molo OCPD Kioko Muinde, the truck driver, who had been speeding, disappeared into a nearby thicket after the crash. TRUCK DRIVER FLEES "The matatu belonging to Eldo-Met Sacco was hit from the rear side. The truck driver then fled after the accident and police are looking for him," said Mr Kioko. The police boss urged motorists to be cautious especially during the festive season. "I call on motorists and pedestrians to be more cautious as we approach the festive season. We cannot afford to lose lives through carelessness," added Mr Kioko. Those injured were taken to Molo Sub-County Hospital where they are recuperating. The Nation learnt that some were later referred to the Nakuru Level Five Hospital for specialised treatment. SACHANGWAN The incident comes a day after a 14-year-old girl was crushed to death while her sister and two cousins sustained serious injuries after a car hit them at Sachangwan while they were crossing the busy Nakuru-Eldoret highway. The victim, Monica Wanjiru, was set join secondary school in January having scored 284 marks in this year’s Kenya Certificate of Primary Education examination. Eyewitnesses said the Eldoret-bound car was speeding when it hit the minors who were standing on the roadside. Scores of people have died and many others have sustained injuries in crashes along the 12-kilometre stretch between Sobea and Mau Summit. NOTORIOUS SECTION The notorious section stretches from Sobea-Salgaa-Migaa-Sachangwan-Total junction near Mau Summit shopping centre. It also includes Jolly Farm and Mkinyai. Dark patches of spilled oil, broken glass, pieces of rubber and mangled remains of motor vehicle parts litter the section – a grim reminder that the stretch bears a bitter past for many families. Local leaders led by Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui have now called on motorists to observe road safety rules especially during the festive season. “I urge all motorists and road users to exercise extra vigilance during this period. Every life on our roads counts and must be protected at all costs,” said the governor in a statement.  