Kanu chairman Gideon Moi is positioning himself as a sober, clean and non-abrasive politician as he sets his eyes on the presidency.His allies are clear that the Baringo Senator is in the race for the top seat.Mr Moi has steered away from declaring that he will run but indications are he is preparing for something big. PARTNERSHIPHe has met ODM leader Raila Odinga, Amani National Congress chief Musalia Mudavadi and Wiper boss Kalonzo Musyoka.He has also met Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho who declared his willingness for a partnership.Mr Moi’s confidantes, including Kanu Secretary-General Nick Salat, have said he is no pushover and his eyes are on the presidency. REBRANDINGAlthough he did not pick our calls on Monday, Mr Salat, recently said the party is rebranding in readiness for 2022.He said Kanu and Mr Moi would work with “like-minded” parties as elections approach.The senator has visited western Kenya twice in a week. FAVOURMr Mudavadi says he is ready to work with Mr Moi. On Sunday, he asked the Rift Valley region, where Mr Moi comes from, to back his bid, adding that western supported Mr Daniel arap Moi when he was in power.“My my community remained loyal to your son for 24 years. You should return the favour by voting for me in 2022,” he said. DIVIDEMr Mudavadi, who presided over a fundsdrive in Keiyo South Constituency, Elgeyo-Marakwet County, said he would reconcile Deputy President William Ruto and Senator Moi.North Rift Kanu chairman Paul Kibet admits that the party is reaching out to other outfits ahead of 2022.“Kanu will work with leaders from across the political divide in the spirit of uniting the country as we see how 2022 will work out. We will shock the nation,” Mr Kibet said. SOLUTIONSHe added that there are challenges facing the country “which Kanu is determined to offer solutions”.According to Mr Kibet, Rift Valley residents will not make the mistake of voting for “selfish” leaders.“We will not elect leaders who do not value us. Rift Valley residents should think about making Mr Mudavadi and others work with us for the benefit of all,” he said. OPPOSITIONTiaty MP William Kamket and Mr Moi’s other allies have been hinting at the Baringo senator going for the top seat.“Watch this space. We are determined to form the next government,” Mr Kamket said.However, Mr Ruto’s allies in Kakamega County say Mr Mudavadi is being duped into a political partnership with Kanu in order to consign the region to the opposition. ALLIANCEFormer Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale says Mr Mudavadi’s plans to form an alliance with Mr Moi are doomed.“Mudavadi should be careful not to be cheated like it happened in 2013 when he was used to divide western, then a stronghold of Odinga. I plead with Mudavadi to join the Ruto’s camp,” the Ford Kenya deputy party leader said in Kakamega town yesterday. Sports CS Rashid Echesa says western Kenya stands to benefit by supporting Mr Ruto. DISCONTENTThe minister, who spoke at the homecoming party of Matungu MP Justus Murunga on Saturday, said attempts by Mr Mudavadi and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula to contest the presidency “are a waste of time”.“Our region does not have the numbers to enable Mudavadi or Wetang’ula to clinch the presidency. Let them support Mr Ruto to ensure western is effectively represented in the next government,” he said.Dr Khalwale said western Kenya would be assured of a deputy presidency if it supports Mr Ruto.It has emerged that Ford Kenya is planning meetings in western to quell discontent among party members over perceived association with Mr Ruto. FRUSTRATIONSParty organising secretary Mandu Mandu said Ford-K supporters have expressed concerns about the Ruto campaigns spearheaded by Dr Khalwale at the expense of party leader Wetang’ula.During a retreat in Naivasha, Ford Kenya resolved to field a presidential candidate in 2022.Dr Khalwale said his decision to support Mr Ruto was because of the frustrations he went through while trying to speed up the merger of ANC and Ford-K. Reported by Barnabas Bii, Wycliffe Kipsang, Onyango K’Onyango and Benson Amadala.   Khalwale has said Gideon Moi does not stand a chance against Ruto.