Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has ordered investigations on two chiefs in Bomet after three children consumed a bootleg drink and fell ill. The minors, including one of under 10 years, were admitted to Kapkatet Hospital in Kericho County after taking chang’aa on Wednesday. 4 ARRESTED Dr Matiang’i on Wednesday issued a stern statement, ordering Rift Valley Regional Commissioner Mongo Chimwaga to immediately start investigations. He accused the chief and sub-chief of Mogogosiek Location of negligence and dereliction of duty. “Upon confirming the incident, the CS directed the Regional Commissioner to facilitate immediate investigations into the negligence of the area chief and assistant chief with a view to taking disciplinary action for dereliction of duty,” a statement from the ministry stated. “An immediate crackdown in the area has also led to the arrest of four suspects, who are now detained at Konoin Police Station, awaiting to be arraigned in court tomorrow (Thursday)." The two boys and a girl were found unconscious in a tea plantation in Kaproret village, Mogogosiek Location, Konoin Constituency. “The children were brought in unconscious but we have stabilised them and they have regained consciousness and are now under observation,” a doctor at the hospital said. SECURITY Villagers said the children stumbled on the illicit brew hidden in a small tea farm while herding cattle. “We suspect that they gulped down the stuff to avoid getting caught but did not know its effect on their bodies. They were rushed to hospital after a villager stumbled upon them and raised the alarm,” said Mr Peter Ng’etich, a resident. On Monday night, a man died after taking the illicit brew in the same village, prompting irate residents to storm local drinking dens and destroy the drink. Dr Matiang'i said the government would not tolerate chiefs who allow production, sale and consumption of illicit brews like chang’aa and Busaa. “We will act firmly and decisively on this matter.” The CS also warned administrators who are sleeping on their jobs and causing security lapses, saying they will be sacked.  