There is no respite in sight for Kenyans following a warning by the Kenya Meteorological Department that rainfall will continue for the next five days. Rainfall has been pounding several parts of the country with Kajiado, Kitui, Makueni, Machakos and Taita Taveta counties recording heavy rainfall. Acting director of Kenya Meteorological Department Stella Aura said rainfall is expected over several parts of the country between Saturday and Tuesday next week with heavy rainfall expected over isolated parts of the highlands west of the Rift Valley. LAKE BASIN In the latest five-day weather forecast covering between December 14 and 18, released on Friday, counties in the Lake Victoria Basin of Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii and Nyamira will experience rains over few places in the morning throughout the week. In the afternoon, showers and thunderstorms are expected over few places with temperatures falling to as low as nine degrees Celsius. The same weather pattern will be experienced in Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia Counties. Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu Counties will experience morning rains over few places and afternoon or evening showers and thunderstorms over few places for the first two days giving way to sunny intervals for the remaining days. The temperatures will be between 24 and 36 degrees Celsius. CENTRAL In the Central highlands region that covers Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, and Tharaka Nithi counties, cloudy mornings with rains over few places breaking into sunny intervals will be experienced. This will then give way to showers over few places in the afternoon with temperatures falling to as low as 10 degrees Celsius throughout the forecast period. Ms Aura said that Nairobi County is expected to experience rains over few places in the morning and showers over several places but the rainfall is expected to be of moderate intensity. “On Saturday and Sunday, rains are likely to occur over few places in the morning then break into sunny intervals and showers over few places late in the afternoon/night. However, from Monday to Wednesday next week, experience mainly sunny intervals with only a slight chance of afternoon/night showers on Wednesday,” she said.   Kenya Meteorological Departments short rains season to end in third week of December.