The authorities did a very smart thing by calling back the police riot squads from Uhuru Park early on Tuesday morning. This had the effect of completely scuttling Nasa’s game plan. The outfit’s principals had not expected this. They had expected a day of tear gas, bullets, violence and running battles all over Nairobi between police and Nasa supporters angry at being denied entry into the park. This mayhem would have been relayed to the world by every international TV station and newspaper, thus piling pressure on Jubilee to open talks with the Opposition. Frustrated, the world media could only sniff at what they called a “mock inauguration”. No “swearing-in” could have been planned by the principals amidst the anticipated havoc. That is why Uhuru Park showed no preparations for an event that morning: no chairs or party decorations at the dais, not even a public address system. Things changed when Nasa supporters learned they were free to enter the park, which they did in their thousands. This left the Nasa principals, especially Raila Odinga, in a huge dilemma. A crowd lover, he felt he must show up, otherwise he would lose the multitude, which was overwhelmingly ODM. Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula, who had all long questioned the wisdom of the “swearing-in”, felt the pressure, too, but developed cold feet. TAKING OATH I have acquired a sneaking respect for Raila for doing what no one has ever done in this country, however comical it was. I felt a touch of pity watching the man hurriedly taking the “oath”, even as his allies deserted him. That is the curse Raila must live with. For all the reasons that drove him to take the “oath’’ and more, he will forever remain radioactive to political would-be suitors who prefer more conventional ways to power. Worse, Raila’s international reputation, which he is so mindful of, took a very bad beating. Even so, it was the no-show Kalonzo who was the day’s biggest loser. I fear his career as a serious national political player may effectively be over. Mudavadi has, likewise, become damaged goods. Whilst Raila’s Nyanza powerbase will never desert him, Kalonzo’s Ukambani constituency and Mudavadi’s Luhya base are unsteady and were deeply shaken by their leaders’ absenteeism. This was not out of love for Raila per se. They know that without the benefit of his voting bloc, making it to State House in 2022 is a pipe dream. Kalonzo’s reasons for missing the “swearing-in” cut little ice with detractors. He first complained that his security detail had abruptly been withdrawn. GRENADE Then he improvised with a tale about a grenade and gun attack at his Nairobi residence. Police investigators concluded the whole thing was fabricated. Raila’s obsession with crowning himself “People’s President” beats me. He was doing quite well standing up to Uhuru Kenyatta’s government without the meaningless title. By trampling on constitutional rules without paying the price, he has shown he is untouchable and left the government looking wishy-washy. His followers will take the “oathing” symbolism literally as he orchestrates other stunts to undermine the government in power. There will be an unrelenting menu of boycotts, court cases and street protests. His overriding aim will be to set up Kenyatta’s regime to fail. HUMILITY The ODM leader has many strengths, but humility is not one of them. He rated the significance of his “swearing-in” on par with Independence Day in 1963. Still, he may hesitate to endorse the ultimate step of provocation which hotheads in his party have been advocating: Secession. That is not to say he will actively discourage them. What may bring a real crisis is if these hotheads jump the gun as they did with the “swearing-in” affair. CS Fred Matiang’i’s vocal banning of the National Resistance Movement thing could, just conceivably, give them ideas. This NRM is in reality an amorphous creature which Raila dreamed up when he promised a “big” announcement around Christmas time. Yet you never know; it could actually grow legs.  Warigi is a socio-political commentator gitauwarigi@yahoo.com  