The Pharmacy and Poisons Board (PPB) has approved a plan by Mount Kenya University (MKU) to start a Bachelor of Pharmacy degree for students progressing from Diploma in Pharmacy/Pharmaceutical Technology. The progression study will be known as Bachelor of Pharmacy (Diploma Entry) Programme. The PPB, in approving the MKU implementation plan for the programme in January, indicated that the arrangement was in tandem with its credit waiver policy guidelines for progression from diploma in pharmacy or pharmaceutical technology to bachelor of pharmacy degree. CREDIT WAIVER The PPB credit waiver policy, approved in December 2013, is a useful tool for facilitating the progression of diploma holders in pharmacy to degree level. The policy recognises that enrolled pharmaceutical technologists (ordinary diploma holders) have the relevant and necessary experience that demonstrates their appropriateness for entry into the pharmacy degree and subsequent exemptions in some course units. This is because they have undergone certified and experiential learning. The policy also recognises that the holders of the National Higher Diploma in Pharmacy (HND) have attained more knowledge than ordinary diploma holders, and may hence be granted advanced standing by individual universities after the assessment of their academic history. ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS Students applying for the degree course must have studied diploma in pharmacy/pharmaceutical technology in a PPB accredited institution. They must have satisfied the general criteria for admission into the diploma in pharmaceutical technology (DPT) programme as per PPB guidelines. Applicants must be further enrolled as a Pharmaceutical Technologist by the PPB. PROGRAMME STRUCTURE Pharmacy diploma holders who scored a pass (or a GPA >3.0) in their diploma programme will not receive any credit waivers in the BPharm course, hence they will undergo a minimum course duration of five academic years. Pharmacy diploma holders who scored a credit grade will be considered for credit waivers for courses covered during the first year of the BPharm programme. They may join the BPharm programme in the second year of study. Holders of higher national diploma (HND) in pharmacy are granted advanced standing in the BPharm programme. They get credit waivers in the first and second years of study and may join the BPharm programme in the third year. Studies are scheduled for four days per week (Thursday to Sunday), exclusively at the Thika campus. Course assessment will involve continuous tests, practical work, bedside exam, oral exam and end of year examination.  