Victims of the latest banditry attacks in Kerio Valley are reeling in shock and agony over their dead and maimed relatives, even as the government renews its promise to find a lasting solution to insecurity in the volatile region. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i visited Kerio Valley  on Monday and pledged a tougher response to bandits who have continued to ride roughshod over residents, making their life miserable. ATTACK The latest victim of this mayhem is Denis Kimutai, 10, who is being treated at Kapsowar Mission Hospital in Elgeyo Marakwet County, for bullet injuries sustained when ruthless bandits attacked his school two weeks ago. The Class Four pupil at Genesis Academy in Endo was shot in the left hand and lower abdomen but survived after doctors removed the bullets lodged in his body. His father, Alex Chepkonga, wondered why his son was shot yet he was not herding any cattle but studying in class. “Now my son has life-threatening injuries. Who will cater for his hospital bills?” asked Mr Chepkonga. No pupil was killed during the brazen daytime attack. However, more than 50 schools in the region remain closed with teachers said to be seeking transfers from the banditry-prone region. This is the worrying trend that Dr Matiang’i now seeks to reverse. SECURITY He did not mince his words when he addressed residents and security officers during a peace meeting at Tot in Elgeyo-Marakwet County. “What is it with this region? The first role of every Interior CS who takes over is to tour Kerio Valley. We have to do things differently and put a stop to this madness,” said Dr Matiang’i. “It is regrettable that 54 years after independence, schools are being closed due to cattle raids and banditry,” he said. But, even as he spoke, armed bandits descended on Kamolokol village, just a few kilometres from where the CS was addressing the peace meeting,  shot dead one person and drove  away an unknown number of livestock. Dr Matiang’i warned politicians found to be inciting their communities to violence of dire consequences. “There will be no compromise when it comes to security issues and we will be ruthless with  people who incite their communities to fight other communities,” warned the CS. RAIDERS The skirmishes largely pit the Marakwet against the Pokot and have led to more than 20 deaths since the beginning of the year. Last week, two people were shot dead after more than 50 raiders from Tiaty in Baringo County launched a daring midday attack and ambushed a group of herders at Chesow grazing field in Elgeyo Marakwet. They opened fire, killing the duo on the spot and injuring two others. Area Chief Abraham Yano identified the dead as Kipkemoi Kitum, 22, and Andrew Biwott, 38. The situation is not different in Baringo County itself where many residents have fled their homes due to the killings that have persisted since 2009. Mr Daniel Chesum from Bartabwa in Baringo North said  some families do not know the whereabouts of their children to date following attacks late year that sent villagers fleeing in different directions. Mr Chesum narrates how the attack in Kesumet village left  three people, one of them a Class Five pupil, dead. “Their bodies were found a week later in the bush. We had to bury them in the bush because it was far from the villages and the roads were impassable and taking into consideration the fact that the villages were already deserted,” said Mr Chesum.   Interior CS Matiang’i says stern action will be taken against war mongers.