Kisii hosts the 2013 losing finalists Strathmore Leos in the only Kenya Cup match slatted for Gusii Stadium on Saturday. This match was originally planned for December 9 last year but postponed at Strathmore Leos’ request. Kenya Cup will resume fully next Saturday with the last two round of the matches before paving way for the top six semi-final playoffs. Kisii, who have only one win that they registered against Mwamba in the eighth round of the league, are battling relegation. They are placed second last in the 12-team league with six points. Strathmore Leos are perched at the middle of the table with 21 points drawn from four wins and a similar number of losses. Victory will be crucial for the Leos as they battle to stay in the top six to have a chance at the pre-semifinals playoff. After Gusii tour, the Leos have two crunch matches against Impala Saracens and Homeboyz while Kisii will meet Kenya Harlequin and Mombasa to wrap up the regular season. AUTOMATIC SLOTS The top two teams will claim the automatic slots for the semi-finals with the next four battling in the pre-semifinals play-off. The last two teams will be relegated to the KRU Championship League. Leaders and champions Kenya Commercial Bank’s resilience will face a litmus test when they play Kabras Sugar in the penultimate round next Saturday before facing Impala on March 3 at Ruaraka. Homeboyz' run looks manageable as they face Mombasa at Jamhuri Park before winding up the regular season against Strathmore Leos. After the bankers test, Kabras Sugar will then wrap it up against Blak Blad at Kenyatta University grounds. KCB, who are yet to taste defeat this season, stretched their Kenya Cup lead to 44 points with a resounding 10 tries in their 60-0 victory against hosts Mombasa at the Mombasa Sports Club last Saturday. Homeboyz are five points adrift, having floored Kenyatta University’s Blak Blad 27-13 at the Jamhuri Park show ground to consolidate their second place in standings. FIXTURES Kenya Cup Resolution Kisii v Strathmore Leos – Gusii Stadium 4pm KRU Championship South Coast Pirates v Ngong Warriors – Ukunda 4pm Menengai Oilers v Egerton Wasps – Moi Showground, Nakuru 4pm JKUAT Cougars v USIU – Juja, 4pm. Eric Shirley Shield Resolution Kisii v Strathmore Leos – Gusii Stadium 2pm Blak Blad v Quins – Kenyatta University 4pm   KCB touched down 10 tries to maul hosts Mombasa 60-0 at Mombasa Sports Club