The Opposition Nasa has described as a “vibrant exchange of views” statements from the coalition that have recently painted a picture of a divided coalition. The coalition said even in the “extremely small differences” it had remained a strong team, and had managed to resolve differences that arose. In a statement signed by Nasa leader Raila Odinga, and co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka, Moses Wetang’ula and Musalia Mudavadi, the opposition coalition accused the media of turning a blind eye on what they said were even bigger differences in the President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee Party. “A section of the media has in recent days used vibrant exchange of views within Nasa mostly on fringe issues to portray the coalition as divided and on the verge of collapse. Nothing could be further from the truth,” Nasa said in the statement. PARLIAMENTAs a team, they said, they remained a broad-based coalition that had set its goals on economic and social transformation to strengthen governance and improve democracy in Kenya. Mr Musyoka, Mr Mudavadi and Mr Wetang’ula last month skipped the “swearing-in” of Mr Odinga as the “people’s president”, kicking off a series of counter-accusations within the coalition. The coalition has also disagreed on the sharing of slots in parliamentary committees, with the other parties accusing Mr Odinga’s ODM of being a bully. Some of the leaders, in interviews with the Nation and other media outlets, have expressed deep-seated concerns about the coalition. “Now, without saying it, the leadership of the parties are realising that Uhuru and Raila having been sworn in marks the end of the 2017 electoral cycle,” Ford-Kenya deputy party leader Boni Khalwale told the Nation on Thursday. “Therefore, I will not be surprised if we see breakages, new alliances, and new parties. It is part and parcel of the operation to yet election.” ALFRED KETERBut the Nasa leaders, in the statement, said all was well within the coalition and that the real problems and fissures were in Jubilee. “We therefore urge supporters to ignore media reports that are determined to create rifts where none exist while ignoring the same in Jubilee where they are real and threatening,” the Nasa leaders said. In Jubilee, the leaders argued, there was such a huge problem in the sharing of parliamentary slots that MPs had to be de-whipped for disobeying the party and “contesting and winning seats that had been reserved for others”. MPs Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills), Silas Tiren (Moiben), Embakasi North’s James Gakuya and Kangogo Bowen of Marakwet East were removed from committee leadership positions when they ran against party choices. “The coalition has been able to resolve the minor disputes like membership and leadership of House committees amicably, unlike the Jubilee Party, which has had to eject members forcibly from certain committees,” they said. In the statement, the coalition also said Jubilee was facing an imminent split over “statements that suggest lack of support for Deputy President William Ruto for his 2022 State House run”. Speaking when he commissioned a block at Mbagathi Secondary School, Kibera MP Ken Okoth reiterated the Nasa leaders’ statement, saying the coalition is intact. “Jubilee is using propaganda to create unnecessary anxiety within Nasa. We are strong and united, and we will soon roll out our next agenda,” he said.   Mr Mbadi said the increased personal attacks on judges and magistrates must stop.