Dating has never been easier. With a swipe of the finger, one can meet endless prospective dates through the privacy of their phone. Tinder is one of the most popular phone dating apps in use. By 2014 statistics, about 50 million users worldwide had downloaded the app, with one billion swipes resulting in 12 million matches a day. Surely, out of 50 million, it must be easy to find your one Prince Charming, right? Well, let’s find out from Kenyan women who have used it to find love. “THE NAUGHTY TEXTER” “I let a squeal of excitement when I got a notification that finally, someone had also swiped right on me. At last a new match! Here is the thing; on Tinder you must like a guy by swiping right on their picture and you can only talk to each other if he also swipes right on you. After we matched, he sent me a message: ‘Hello sexy. You wanna see some white meat?’ ‘What do you mean?’ ‘I bet you have never dated a white guy before, I want to show you how it looks and you can show me too.’ I immediately unmatched him.” - Alice. “THE POTENTIAL LOVE CON” Tinder was very popular with people in my social circle so I decided to give it a go. I had no reservations against Tinder since my last relationship started online (I met a wonderful man on Facebook and although it was nice, we separated when he had to relocate back home away from Kenya). So I joined tinder with high hopes and trust. “After chatting for a while with a seemingly nice guy who told me he was living in the leafy suburbs of Nairobi, it was time we met. He proposed we meet at a nice chilled out bar in Lavington, which I agreed to since it was on my way from work. On the D-day, he called to make sure that we were still on since he had cancelled his gym session to meet with me. An hour to meeting, he called to say that he was at his home waiting for a delivery but he still intended to come. “After waiting for him for a few minutes at the bar, he called to say that his delivery had just arrived but he was short of cash, and that I should Mpesa him the money then he would pass by an ATM on his way to me to withdraw my refund. I uninstalled the app after the call. Tinder is a hoax and I will never recommend it to anyone!” - Mercy. “A MARRIED MESS” “It was out of curiosity that I downloaded Tinder. I thought it might be easy and fun to meet new people since I am very introverted, hardly go out or meet new people. “After overcoming self-stigmatisation and the embarrassment of using an online dating app, I created my profile. Although I wasn’t looking for a serious relationship, I was repelled by the huge number of married men using the app. They are sly, these married men; they would chat you up and charm you for a while before going on a tirade about how their marriages are difficult. “I even saw my former boss on the app, posing as a single man. I wish there was a way I could warn the ladies about his short temper and unpolished character, but oh well. I resorted to tactics to help me to weed them out: swipe left if he has a child in any of his pictures, has a ring on any of his fingers and if he has indicated in his profile that he is just looking for friends.” – Phoebe. “POSSIBLE WORK BAE” “Sometimes I pass for a Kenyan but when I speak everyone can tell from my British accent I am definitely not a local. It is rather lonely being in a new country away from family and friends – and single at that. Tinder is popular in the UK, so I decided to use it to meet guys (here). I bumped into work mates, swiped left and moved on. But when I came across one of the new guys at work I was captivated. I swiped right, and shock on me, it was a match! “We started chatting. He told me a lot about himself and after chatting the whole weekend, I decided to tackle the unspoken fact that we work for the same company. I said ‘Hey, can’t wait till I see you Monday at work. Lunch?” “It went quiet. “Later on, he said that since he was new and we work in different departments he hadn’t noticed that we were colleagues. After that, he never said much (to me). He was civil when he bumped into me at work but never mentioned the chat. In my desire to get him to reach out, I started dressing up for work and showing up at his department under the guise of work but he never gave it a shot. – Elizabeth. “TINDERELLA?” “I am in love with love. I believe in Prince Charming. I went in search of Mr. Right (on Tinder), but my cookie crumbled on my first match. He bluntly told me that if I was looking for love then that was not the place to be. He said most guys on Tinder just wanted nude photos and one night stands. I was devastated, I deactivated my account. “After some convincing from my ultra-modern friend I got back on it again, all hopeful and in my love bubble. I met a nice Nigerian guy; he said he was a lead musician in a popular mega church in Nairobi. A Christian man? I was enthralled! I asked him if he knew my friend who worked at that church too. That’s the last time I heard from him. Later, I asked my friend if she knew him. She said that she did know him, and that he had a girlfriend. Tsk tsk. Tinder account deleted, as was the app.” – Betty. “THE ONE THAT GOT AWAY” “I met Greg on my first day on Tinder. He was very cute in his profile pictures, although I was skipping all men who looked like models. But when I saw him I couldn’t help myself. I didn’t bother reading his profile; I was drooling. When I swiped to find it was a match, I didn’t think to wait. I immediately sent him one of those cheesy GIFs saying hello. “He waved back, said he was just from a basketball game and asked what I was doing. I could imagine him all sweaty and toned. I hesitated to reply; I was in my pyjamas and eating a watermelon in the mid-morning. I wanted to sound cute and interesting, not faint and sickly like my body felt. So I told him about the Chinese movie I was watching and how I was trying to broaden my taste in movies. He told me he had already started his long holiday break so he would also find the movie and watch it. I didn’t want the conversation to end, so I asked if he was a teacher because his Christmas holiday had started so early and sounded like it would last forever. That’s when he told me that he was a documentary producer. My interest in documentary production was piqued since I often produce feature stories for television. Our similar backgrounds were an instant conversation opener, but it was when he said that I could watch his work sometime that I knew he had me. “Although we enjoyed talking to each other, he didn’t ask for my number so he could get in touch off Tinder. I was beginning to think he was never going to ask me out. In my insecurity, I deleted the app. “But then I couldn’t stop thinking about him so I re-installed it. I didn’t care about all the other matches I had lost; I was looking for him. Just when I thought my thumb couldn’t take the swiping anymore, I found him. We matched again. ‘There you are! I missed you’ he said. It was like I never left. “I had to travel upcountry two days later. There, my niece played with my phone, deleted all my social media apps, re-formatted my phone and threw it into the hen pen. The phone crashed. I come back to the city in 2018, purchased myself a new smart phone go back on Tinder and after 23 days of going through profile pictures looking for Greg, I could not find him. I gave up and deleted Tinder. – Miriam. “PARTY FOR TWO” “I matched with this guy and the first thing he told me was that he was throwing a party at his place which I was invited. I was game. I called up my girlfriend. We go glammed up, called an Uber and off we went. The guy was nice. He handed us drinks the second we got there. The music that was playing was my kind of beat, and I was dancing in the crowded living room like it was a dance floor with little care about who I was bumping into. “I was dancing with my girl when a tall stranger cut in between us. His focus was on me, dancing towards me and smiling. We went on for about 30 minutes before my feet started to ache. I grabbed a glass of cold liquor and stepped onto the balcony of the fourth floor apartment to get a little wind to cool down. ‘I didn’t think you would ever stop dancing.’ I turn around to find the tall guy behind me. I scoffed. He introduced himself. We start talking. The crowd and noise around us disappeared into the background. Somehow we are in our own little party for two. We keep talking and laughing. I ended up leaving the party with him. I woke up to messages from the Tinder guy, asking where I disappeared to. Meanwhile, my tall guy offered me breakfast and a ride home. We stopped at Java for breakfast and as we talked and I laughed at his jokes, we discovered all these things we have in common. We planned to meet again and again and again. Just like that, I found myself in a relationship. It’s been six months since. – Agnes.    