Anyone calling for peace; for closure of the 2017 General Election saga, for turning attention to development “now that the elections are over”, without paying attention to the pulse of those frustrated, angry, in denial or “seeking justice” is, in fact, being unpatriotic. We need one another to move forward. Thankfully, a section of the country has moved on. However, the rest has not. Days and dates have changed. Political events have changed. New people have come into some offices following last year’s elections. Election campaign posters, billboards and all manner of political advertising have been brought down. But the country has not moved away from the outcomes of the 2017 elections. PRESIDENTIAL POLLWhy? Elections are meant to close a chapter and usher in another, even if some leaders are re-elected. Election outcomes are meant to renew hope, aspirations and implementation of people’s dreams. I do appreciate that those in government must implement development plans. For this group the country has moved on. It is a positive attitude to the extent that there is commitment to ensuring we do not forget that there is life beyond elections. But we must also appreciate that there is a considerable percentage of Kenyans for whom days have changed, the calendar year is 2018, but the frustration over the outcome of the 2017 presidential election persists. Their yearning for justice is louder than before. To simply wish away their feelings is doing a great disservice to the future of this country. DIALOGUE Being a predominantly Christian country, we might turn to Saint Paul and remind ourselves that if one part of the body is aching, it is pretentious to say that “I am well”. I guess other religions have similar teachings. If an eye is in pain the whole body must accompany the eye to hospital. If a considerable number of Kenyans are in pain, it is not wise to ignore their concerns – justified or not. Good reasoning alone does not solve a social problem. Parallel contestations away from the preservation of the common good can only hurt us as a country. The many negative effects of the political contest around the need for dialogue, if at all, will be painfully felt as we move towards the next elections. JUSTICE Moreover, the combative behaviour by both the government and the opposition is not a solution. No peace is achieved by brutally outdoing each other when stakes are so high – as are in a contested presidency. The fundamental need for peace, law and order must not be insensitive to the feelings of others. Equally, the search for electoral justice must not negate the sister principle of natural justice. I am worried that we seem unable to address the weaknesses in our electoral system so that elections do not become a reason for fear and polarisation. For this, I shudder seeing the international community offering conditions for what is meant to be a national dialogue, seeking to support the rule of law and order, and support this or that initiative to maintain peace in our country. BOTTOM-UP APPROACH This not only a shame on our sense of sovereignty, but also a surrender to the international world to decide whom between the leading protagonists should to be supported. What do we gain from defending political positions that destroy us as a nation? The sense of being right, entitled, coupled with a condescending attitude from any party to a conflict, can only escalate differences. As a country, we can only say we have moved on if a large part of it is in agreement. To achieve a just and peaceful country, it is imperative that we involve the grassroots and build our house – Kenya – through a bottom-up approach. Dr Mokua is the executive director, Jesuit Hakimani Centre. hakimanidirector@gmail.com.  