Former Nairobi County ward representative accused of killing his wife will be detained for another ten days awaiting a ruling on whether he will be freed on bond. Samwel Ndung'u Njoroge, the former Riruta ward rep, appeared before Kiambu High Court Judge Joel Ngugi Friday where he denied the offence, which he is reported to have committed on January 24, 2018 in Kiambu County. According to the charge sheet which, on the material day at Kiambu sub-county, the MCA, nicknamed Jua Kali killed Lucy Njambi, 24. Ms Njambi, a mother of a four-year old boy, died at the Kenyatta National Hospital where she had been referred from Kiambu Level Five Hospital where he had been rushed by a Good Samaritan, who found her at Kamiti where he had been damped by her attackers. Evidence shows she was raped and her body doused in acid. The prosecution, through State Counsel Jane Maari, and Ms Njambi’s family lawyer Ndegwa Njiru objected his release on bond, arguing that if released, he was likely to interfere with witnesses. Ms Maari said some of the witnesses, especially those related to Ms Njambi, are already feeling threatened and have even requested that they be put under the witness protection scheme. According to the prosecution and Ms Njambi’s family, there are five venerable witnesses, some of who are said to have spoken to the deceased moments before she died. They asked the court to remand Mr Ndung’u until the statements are recorded, and perhaps until they testify in court. They requested for time to file affidavits to back their objection to the bond. Mr Njiru told the court that some of the witnesses are apprehensive that if released, the accused might injure them or could intimidate them, and this, he argued might make them afraid of testifying against him. Former High Court Judge Robert Mutitu, who is representing the politician, argued that the prosecution had not given sufficient grounds to warrant the denial of bond to the accused, who he said has been in custody for the last 16 days. The judge, however, directed that Mr Ndung’u be remanded at the Nairobi Remand Home (formerly Industrial area), until February 19, when he is expected to make a determination as to whether he will be freed on bond. Justice Ngugi  ordered the probation department to prepare a bail report, while the prosecution and Ms Njambi’s family were ordered to prepare their support affidavit and which should be served to the defense by Wednesday next week to facilitated the bail hearing.   Former Riruta ward representative to be arraigned in court on Monday.