It was an afternoon of stalemates as two of the three Kenyan Premier League matches played on Sunday ended in barren draws. Posta Rangers were held to a 0-0 draw by league debutants Vihiga United in Kakamega, while Thika United and Bandari played to a similar scoreline in Thika. Sony Sugar were the only winners of the day, as they beat Zoo Kericho 1-0 at their Awendo home ground to rise to third on the league table. The sugar millers had David Simiyu to thank as his 47th minute goal proved the difference between the two teams, and ensured they collected maximum points for the second time in a row. In Kakamega, Rangers recorded a third consecutive draw despite dominating against Vihiga United for the better part of the first half. The postmen could have taken an early lead in the third minute when Cavin Odongo put through Titus Echesa whose shot was well taken by custodian Barnabas Tiema. After fierce exchanges, Michael Isabwa picked Andrew Murunga with a long range pass on the edge of the box but his shot was tipped over the crossbar by Patrick Matasi for a fruitless corner at the quarter hour mark. Referee Nyabere Libese was forced to yellow-card Vihiga’s Victor Oyugi for a foul on Luis Tera in the 36th minute. The hosts, buoyed by the large crowed that turned up to cheer the County Government of Vihiga-sponsored outfit, went close again through Murunga after he combined well with Isabwa on 39 minutes. With the clock ticking, both sides threw all men in front in search for an opener and it was no shock when Posta coach Omollo rested Tera for the pacy Marcellus Ingotsi. Vihiga tactician Edward Manoah responded by bringing in Godfrey Airo for the tired Isabwa. Veteran midfielder Osborne Monday had a shot saved by Tiema with 12 minutes to go while Murunga wasted yet another chance on the opposite end after heading straight to Matasi from a Liuya Mophat cross. “We started well. The players put in their best but poor finishing cost us the match,” Manoah said after the match. Omollo, who won the league title with Tusker in 2011, said he was happy with the outcome. Posta are yet to win a league match this season after successive draws against AFC Leopards (1-1), Tusker (0-0) and Vihiga (0-0). “I must say all departments worked well. We played well and I am satisfied with the away draw,” Omollo noted. RESULTS Sony Sugar 1-0 Zoo Thika United 0-0 Bandari Vihiga United 0-0 Posta Rangers  