Present-day Nyahururu town was formerly known as Thomson’s Falls. The town sprouted when the colonial railway line connected Nairobi to Laikipia region in the late 1920s. Initially, little was known of the town, which is now at the centre of a battle between two counties – Laikipia and Nyandarua. Shops were opened, especially by Indians who were frequent visitors to the Thomson’s Falls. Years later, Nyahururu became a big town. At the advent of devolution, the town acquired new significance because, by then, it had grown. Consequently it became the centre of conflict for two counties. REVENUEBoth counties lay claim to the town that today boasts of several modern amenities. Major institutions in the town include Nyahururu County Referral Hospital, Nyahururu New Kenya Corporative Creameries, and Nyahururu Law Courts among others. The colonial town’s well-established infrastructure is another advantage that has led to the two counties locking horns over its location. Revelations that the town generates an estimated Sh600 million annually in revenue have also seen leaders fight over its location. The revenue has generated a political battle over its location. Currently the town is administered from Laikipia County. DIALOGUEA fresh battle over the town has emerged with leaders reviving debate about the town’s location. The debate emerged even as the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) is set to start reviewing of constituencies and ward boundaries in the country. The subject took centre stage over the weekend during the burial of Mr Wokabi Muriithi, an elder brother of Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi, at Shamanei in the outskirts of Nyahururu town. During the burial, leaders from Laikipia led by Woman Rep Catherine Waruguru called on leaders from the two counties to dialogue and put the debate to rest. “We are all good neighbours and have lived in harmony. We should come to the table and resolve the issue amicably because I believe that there is no fight between us,” she said. Ol-Kalou MP Njuguna Kiaraho and Jeremiah Kioni (Ndaragwa) were to lead a team to spearhead the agenda of the relocation of the town. Though he has been in the forefront in fighting for the town to be reverted to Nyandarua, Governor Francis Kimemia, who was also present during the burial, kept off the debate, noting that Nyandarua and Laikipia are good neighbours.  