Hi Brenda, I’m a 29-year-old staunch Christian who has practiced abstinence all my life. I’ve had two major relationships in my life. One ended after the girl’s parents refused to grant us their blessings as they said she was too young to settle down (she was 22 years old at the time). She wanted me to wait for five years but I simply couldn’t do that especially since I thought she was using me financially as she was always asking me for money. I was heartbroken and took some time to heal before I met a 28-year-old lady who was okay but too obsessed with her looks and hooked on having an expensive lifestyle so we parted ways. She was also not willing to abstain. She basically said she did not want to date a virgin that she would have to ‘babysit’. For me, waiting is important and I did not see why we couldn’t wait a few months until the wedding night and yet I had waited for so long already. I’m finding it difficult to meet a girl and start a meaningful relationship since my job involves a lot of travelling and I’m hardly at a specific work station for more than five months at a time. I am very selective when it comes to dating ladies. I always look for a submissive lady (willing to listen and understand), hardworking, a lady that can be empowered, humble and above all God fearing lady. Do you think I’m the one who has a problem or it’s the ladies I meet who do? What should I do to get into a serious relationship with a lady who wants to settle down?   Thank you for your kind words! Perhaps it is time to expand your search in terms of where you are looking for a committed lady. In my recent experience, there seems to be no shortage of women looking for a committed man – one who is Christian, abstaining and away for most of the time! You are an interesting combination, that's for sure. If you have made an effort to put yourself out there and you are not getting results – and by putting yourself out there, I mean pushing yourself out of your comfort zone to meet people you would not ordinarily meet, in places outside of church and work, such as speed dating locales, restaurants, saying hello to people at weddings, making the first move, going to friend's parties, things like that – then yes, maybe the problem is you. Look at your standards. Are they realistic? How many submissive women do you know, and do they have a registry? Are you asking for too much? Consider also talking to a close friend to see if you are the one being delusional, or your search for gold is simply taking a little longer than you want it to.   Beautiful women have approached me for dates but I am too afraid to flirt.