Information, Communication and Technology Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru has, for the second time, failed to appear before a Senate committee to explain TV shut down in early February. Mr Mucheru last week skipped the session of the ICT committee chaired by Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, citing a busy schedule. SUMMONS “In view of scheduled ministerial programmes, this office will be available to meet with the committee from February 26, 2018 onward,” Mr Mucheru said in the February 16 letter, to Senate Clerk Jeremiah Nyegenye. He said he was attending a Cabinet meeting, a move that saw the committee reschedule the meeting for today. The committee, for the third time, asked the CS to appear on March 10 to explain why the government switched off the signals of NTV, KTN News, Citizen TV and Inooro TV. The signals of the four stations have since been restored. Under article 125 of the Constitution, a committee of either house of parliament has the powers similar to that of the High Court of Kenya to summon any person to give evidence or providing information. SH1BN TRANSFER This, therefore, means that the committee has the powers to enforce attendance of witnesses and examine them on oath or affirmation, compel the production of documents among others. Mr Mucheru was also required to explain why the state was targeting journalists in the latest crackdown on the media. The recent arbitrary transfer of Sh1 billion universal fund to the directorate of criminal investigations from the Communications Authority of Kenya following an announcement by President Kenyatta is another issue the CS is required explain to the lawmakers. Normally, a transfer of this nature would involve the National Assembly’s approval, which allocates funds to various government ministries, departments and other agencies. MOI The committee will also seek to find out whether the order by the president was written, signed and bearing the official seal of the presidency as required by the Constitution. Separately, National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale on Monday faulted Senate's investigations into the TV shutdown, saying the matter is before the courts. Mr Duale also wants Baringo Senator Gideon Moi to stop heading the ICT committee on account of being an interested party. “The principal of conflict of interest provides that if a chairperson vice chairperson or a member has an interest over a matter that is under investigations by their committees, they are required to declare their interests. Mr Moi has not done this,” Mr Duale said. Duale claims that Moi owns KTN News, which was also affected by shutdown. On January 30, the government switched off the signals of of the four stations from both the pay and free-to-air platforms, accusing them covering the “swearing-in” of Nasa leader Raila Odinga against a government’s order.  