Kenya is capable of driving the Safari Rally back onto the World Rally Championship, International Automobile Federation (FIA) President Jean Todt has said. But the most powerful man of global motorsport added that Kenyan organisers must meet all the requirements set by the FIA for the return of the classic onto the global roster for the first time since 2002. The Safari Rally was struck out of the global circuit due to a combination of safety and sponsorship concerns. The government has launched a drive to reinstate the rally onto the World Rally Championship, among other things by launching the “WRC Safari Rally Project” team and allocating it project offices at Kasarani. It is while officially opening these offices on Tuesday that Frenchman Todt went through nostalgic memories of the Safari Rally of old. He was particularly struck with images of himself competing in the 1978 Safari in a Peugeot 504 Coupe, saying the Safari Rally deserved to go back to the WRC calendar. “It’s sad that Safari Rally lost its WRC status in 2002 despite its rich history. Over the years there have been initiatives to have it back but unfortunately it didn’t happen,” said Todt, who admitted that a lot has changed since it’s not possible to have Safari Rally on open roads like before. STRONG COMMITMENT “WRC have initiated new format but I believe Kenya is capable of conforming to FIA specifications. Safari Rally deserves to be on the WRC but Kenya must deliver and if they can’t then it won’t get the status back,” warned Todt who, however, noted that Kenya has shown strong commitment  to have the WRC status following the direct involvement of President Uhuru Kenyatta, whom he met in 2015 and, again, yesterday at State House, Nairobi. Kenya hopes to have a candidate rally next year before having it back as a WRC round in 2020. Todt said the combined effort of motoring organisations and the public will be essential in reclaiming the Safari Rally’s place as a World Rally Championship competition. Todt, who is also the United Nations Secretary General’s special envoy on road safety, also implored Kenyans to end the senseless road carnage as part of the efforts to assure the world that Kenyan roads are safe. “I am encouraged by what I have seen,” said Todt. “It will rely on combined efforts by Kenya Motor Sports Federation, Automobile Association of Kenya, FIA Foundation and both the private and public sectors.” The Frenchman noted that safety for rally cars and drivers, fans and other spectators will be paramount and told Kenya to educate people on its importance as a WRC requirement.   Glen Edmunds, Ian Duncan, Azar Anwar and Baldev Chager attended the event.