Deputy President William Ruto on Sunday reached out to the Opposition Nasa, asking the coalition to stop their criticism and unite with the Jubilee administration in building Kenya. Mr Ruto said the Jubilee government’s agenda was to improve the lives of Kenyans, and it would not be swayed by empty political rhetoric. POLITICS “We will not engage in divisive politics. What the country needs at the moment is politics of development. This government was elected in a democratic process,” said Mr Ruto, who was speaking during an inter-denominational thanksgiving prayer service at Chepkemel in Uasin Gishu County. The DP defended the Jubilee administration against accusations that most of the top jobs, including Cabinet positions, were held by members of two ethnic communities. “Jubilee has the face of Kenya. We will not engage in divisive and hate politics again,” said Mr Ruto. He added that the Jubilee Party had elected leaders in 41 out of the 47 counties, saying that was a clear indication that it has the face of Kenya. UNITY The DP reiterated Jubilee’s commitment to unite all Kenyans irrespective of their political or ethnic affiliations. “Our mission is to unite the country and we will continue with this journey until 2022, until we eliminate politics of ethnicity. We want Kenyans to believe that they belong to one great country,” said Mr Ruto. He said the Jubilee administration had done a lot in the last five years, citing the enrolment of 6.8 million people under the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF). He added that the figure was expected to reach 13 million in the next five years. Mr Ruto said that in Uasin Gishu County alone, the government had connected 220,000 people to electricity, up from 67,000 five years ago. LAW The DP was categorical that all Kenyans, including the Opposition, should submit to the rule of law. He said the Executive, Judiciary, Parliament and the Opposition were bound to abide by the rule of law. “All of us must submit to the Constitution of Kenya and the rule of law, not the rule of men,” said Mr Ruto. He said when the Supreme Court nullified Jubilee’s August 8, 2017 election win, they respected the law by going back to the repeat presidential election in October 26 as demanded by the highest court in the land. “If there are people who respect the rule of law, then it’s us in Jubilee. We have a track record of abiding by the rule of law and we will continue doing so,” said Mr Ruto. “This democratically elected government under the leadership of President Kenyatta will continue to be run on the basis of the constitution and the rule of law,” added Mr Ruto. REBELS Rift Valley MPs, who have openly rebelled against the party, among them Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills) and Silas Tiren (Moiben) were on the receiving end. More than 10 MPs who accompanied the DP were categorical that the rebels should resign from the party and seek fresh mandates if they were not ready to abide by the party rules. Kesses MP Swarup Mishra told Mr Keter, who is in custody for allegedly trading in fake Treasury Bills, to follow the due process of the law in seeking justice for his woes instead of looking for scapegoats. Sirisia MP John Waluke assured the DP that Western was solidly behind his 2022 presidential bid. Present were Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka, Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, MPs Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East), Emmanuel Wangwe (Navakholo), Malulu Injendi (Malava), Oscar Sudi (Kapseret), Janet Rotich (Turbo), Nixon Korir (Lang’ata), Vincent Tuwei (Mosop) and Caleb Kositany (Soy). INDEPENDENT National Assembly chief whip Washiali and Mr Lusaka dismissed claims that State House was interfering with the independence of Parliament and legislators. “Those complaining over Parliament’s lack of independence are confused because they have been earning salaries and allowances for free as they are not attending sessions,” said Mr Washiali.  