GANGNEUNG It's like a football pitch: the better the surface, the better the play, says the ice expert at the Olympic figure skating rink. Remy Boehler is the Frenchman whose job it is to ensure perfect underblade conditions for Yuzuru Hanyu and all the other skaters bidding for Olympic glory at the Gangneung Arena over the next fortnight. Easy one might think, with the 2018 Games braced to be one of the coldest on record. But the finger-numbing, sub-zero temperatures outside the rink can pose their own problems, as the Pyeongchang Games ice expert told AFP on Thursday. "The ice is sensitive and reacts to everything — to air temperature, humidity, to the quality of water. "If it's very cold outside like now and that's felt inside it can pick up on that, you have to have good insulation inside. For the moment it's working well." Like a gardener tending to roses, Boehler says the preparation of a good ice surface is not something to be rushed. "You have to respect time, and make sure not to over-water it." His role in South Korea is to ensure a level playing field, literally. "The ice has to be as flat as possible, we try not to go over 1cm difference in height over the entire 1,800 square metres of rink," he said. "That's complicated to achieve. You have to really work the ice and have good men in charge of the ice machines so that it's between 4 and 5cm in depth." 'THE ICE FEELS AWESOME' At the wheel of the two ice-flattening machines, Boehler has drivers from Korea, Japan and America to call on. The arena on the Korean east coast has a capacity of 12,000 which presents its own set of problems. "When you have 12,000 people the temperature can rise 10 degrees in 10 minutes," Boehler said. "So to anticipate the change of setting points for the cooling machine we are using a new system of control which allows us to tell exactly what temperature it is in the hall so the ice is always -3 or -4 degrees." His job satisfaction is providing a surface for the skaters to perform at their best. "The ice is the same for everyone, if we do a good job it helps them to skate better. "Just like in football, if the pitch is good you get a decent match. "I've talked to the skaters, they are all happy with it." That was certainly the view of American gold medal hope Nathan Chen, who emerged from his first practice on Wednesday to report: "The ice feels awesome." The fact that the arena is also doubling up as the venue for short track speed skating adds a further dimension to Boehler's job. "The surface of the ice for figure skating and short track is different so we can't work the machines in the same way, as ice for short track has to be a little colder at -7 degrees." Boehler's ice gets its first slice of competitive action on Friday with the start of the team event.   A group of 13 Russians has lost a last-ditch bid to beat their country's doping ban.