Fresh from his victory in the Sigona Bowl two weeks ago, Limuru’s John Karichu is once again the man to beat this weekend at Nyeri Golf Club where some of the country’s top amateurs converge for the 2018 Mt Kenya Championship. The plus one handicap Karichu has been in great form over the past two months though he had to beat the South Africa-based Daniel Nduva in the third hole of a sudden death play off, to retain the 59-year-old Sigona Bowl. Besides Karichu, and his club-mates Francis Kimani and Paul Muchangi, the event has attracted other leading amateurs such as Vet Lab’s Edwin Mudanyi, Robinson Owiti and the defending champion Mike Kisia. Royal Nairobi’s Dennis Saikwa, Samuel Njoroge and Kenya’s top junior Mutahi Kibugu of Muthaiga are also in the mix. During last year’s tournament, Kisia posted 73 and 71 for 144 to beat Samuel Njoroge by one shot. Teeing off for Saturday’s opening round of the event, which is in its 66th edition, is set for 7am in a continuously draw with the second round set for Sunday morning. CHAIRMAN'S PRIZE Back in Nairobi, a field of over 200 players was drawn for the Kenya Ladies Golf Union (KLGU) Chairman's Prize at Muthaiga Golf Club being sponsored by Waterbuck Hotel of Nakuru in conjunction with BSR Hospital and CFG. This will be the last function for the KLGU council led by current chairman June Waweru. The ladies will play in the morning so that they attend the annual general meeting which is expected to usher in a new council that will steer the union’s activities for the next one year. Among the ladies going for the Chairman’s Prize title will be Vet Lab’s Mary Karano and Esther Chumo, Golf Park’s Agnes Nyakio, Mercy Nyanchama and Sarah Khanyereri, Limuru’s Mwongeli Nzioka and Nakuru’s Shiro Kaime. Another big field will be at Vet Lab Sports Club where the par 72 will be hosting the second leg of the 2018 Johnnie Walker Gold Label Reserve series following last weekend’s first leg at Kiambu. At Royal Nairobi Golf Club, Insurance professionals who are members of the club will be sponsoring a bib event dubbed the “Wanabima" Golf day. The event event is being supported by individual members and corporates from the insurance industry among them being Reinsurance Solutions, AAR Healthcare, Kenya Re, and Continental Re & Sanlam. Among those going for the sponsors prize will include the four ball of Charles Kariuki, Eric Rugo, Francis Nzili and Linus K’Owiti. The purpose of the event according to the organisers, is to raise awareness about the critical role of insurance in supporting business. NYALI HOSTS ANOTHER EVENT On Friday afternoon, the par 72 Karen Country Club will host the second leg of the six-events Barclays Bank Golf Tour launched at Eldoret Golf Club late last year as part of the bank's strategy to develop the game of golf in the country. Friday’s tournament has attracted a big field of over 200 players who will be battling it out for a number of prizes. Down at the Coast, action will be at Nyali Golf and Country club where 150 players were drawn for the Chairman’s Prize being sponsored by Empire Kenya, Nyali Centre, Johnnie Walker and GA Insurance among many others.   Day Three leader Nelson Simwa dropped to third place.