TORONTO, CANADA Self-declared National Resistance Movement (NRM) “general” Miguna Miguna who was recently banished to Canada has said that plans are underway for his return to Kenya that has branded him persona non grata. In an exclusive interview with Nation in his law offices in Toronto Canada over the weekend, the fiery lawyer who on January 30 participated in the “swearing-in” of opposition leader Raila Odinga as the people’s president, Dr Miguna said nothing, not even President Uhuru Kenyatta would prevent him from returning home to continue advocating for electoral justice. ORDERS “I’ve just received reports that Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto are saying that it doesn’t matter how many orders I obtain. I may obtain a million orders but they will never allow me back to Kenya. My message to Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto is this, Kenya does not belong to you and I’ll be back. Sorry,” he said. Prodded further on when he will return home, Mr. Miguna said, “As soon as I can go. I know my wife will not be happy to hear that but some of these things you have to decide how you want to live your life and the legacy you want to leave behind. As we speak, my lawyers have filed a petition today.” COURT PETITION He said his team of lawyers has moved to the High Court to seek his exoneration from claims that he had been deported so that he can return to Kenya as quickly as possible. “As we speak, my lawyers filed a petition today in the High Court seeking to invalidate the purported decision of withdrawing my citizenship,” Dr Miguna said. Calling on the international community to intensify pressure on the Kenyan government to respect the rule of law and press freedom, Dr Miguna said western governments that purport to be champions of democracy, accountability and press freedom have tended to pay lip service to the importance of these values when it comes to Africa and other third world countries. “These so-called western government should do more than just paying lip service to these things,” he added. Dr Miguna said his recent altercation with the government should serve as a wakeup call for the people in diaspora to take keen interest in what is going on back at home. He said his message to the diaspora is to remain organised, focused and fearless. “Understand that Kenya belongs to all of us,” he added.   Ombeta says he was informed Miguna was put on a KLM flight for Amsterdam then Canada.