Gor Mahia will Thursday afternoon seek to extend the perfect start to their campaign this term when the team travels to confront Zoo Kericho at the Kericho Green Stadium. Already, the reigning league champions are motivated by the prospect of assuming command of the 18-team table after just two matches. A win of any kind will propel the league champions to the top of the league standings and underline a ruthless start that has seen them maintain a scary 100 per cent record thus far. This task is however easier said than done. Reason being, the hosts are statistically a strong team at their backyard having claimed six of their nine wins last season in Kericho. Gor however are a different opponent altogether and Zoo coach Sammy Okoth will not only have to come up with a formula to bring the best out of his stars the likes in the frame of Michael Madoya and Nicholas Kipkurui, but also organise a strong rearguard. Kipkurui combined well with Madoya, the reigning Most Valuable Player, to score two goals in their 4-2 defeat at the hands of Ulinzi Stars on the opening day of the league two weeks ago. “We made a lot of mistakes especially at the back and when that happens, it’s hard to win a match,” said Okoth after the Ulinzi clash. Madoya also echoed the coach’s sentiments during an interview with Nation Sport on Wednesday stating: “Two goals should normally be enough to win you a game. That wasn’t the case against Ulinzi and versus Gor it will be tougher. We have no choice other than to keep things tight at the back to stand a chance of picking something.” Worrying for Zoo, K’Ogalo do not seem to be having any problems at all. The reigning champions have already won three competitive games, against AFC Leopards in the KPL Super Cup, Nakumatt in the league, and Leones Vegetarinos in the Champions League and scored seven goals and conceded none. What’s more, club top scorer last season Rwandan import Meddie Kagere has picked up from where he left, contributing three goals in their 4-0 mauling of Nakumatt. New signings Kevin Omondi and Ivorian Ephrem Guikan have also weighed in with a goal apiece against Vegetarinos last weekend, with the former scoring 22-yard cracker moments after coming on as a second half substitute against the team from Equatorial Guinea.   Nation Media Group FC toured Mombasa last month.