Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has warned chiefs and leaders helping mediation between rape suspects and families of victims that they will be arrested and prosecuted. Dr Matiang’i said the communal dispute resolution commonly known as “maslaha” should never be applied in cases of rape, especially those to do with minors. “Rape is a crime and suspects should be arrested and charged, anyone found mediating between the victims of rape and the suspects or their families will be sacked and arrested immediately,” the CS said. GIRL RAPED He was speaking in Wajir County, just five days after a schoolgirl, 15, was gang-raped for three days at Habaswein settlement, in what is becoming a trend in the region. The girl was flown to Nairobi after the ordeal, and a suspect whom she said was well known to her was arrested and charged in court. Six other suspects are still at large. Dr Matiang’i visited the North Eastern town to hold meetings with leaders and locals in order to device ways of dealing with rape, boundary disputes between locals and Al-Shabaab terrorists suspected to be behind the killing of teachers in Qarsa village, Wajir County, on February 15. SPECIAL FORCES Following the attacks, the CS said the government will increase the number of special forces along border areas to curb attacks by terrorists and raiders from neighbouring countries. He warned youth who have been closing various roads along the border areas of Wajir North and Eldas saying the government will deal with them ruthlessly. Although the Dr Matiang’i did not specify the role the special forces would play and what formation of the National Police Service they will be drawn from, he assured residents that they would start seeing change in terms of security, urging teachers not to leave the county which has borne the brunt of attacks. He urged locals to support teachers saying, “The biggest enemy to all of you is a person who targets your children’s teachers. It is your duty as residents to ensure that the teachers are safe.” The CS met various leaders and the county security team among them Governor Mohamed Abdi, Senator Abdullahi Ali, Woman Rep Fatuma Gedi, North Eastern Regional Commissioner Mohamud Saleh, Deputy Inspector General in Charge of Administration Police Noor Yaarow Gabow and several MPs. Mr Saleh asked residents to play their role in security, saying members of the community knew youth who had joined terror gangs.  