Champions Gor Mahia got off to a flying start in 2018 Kenya Premier League season, beating Nakumatt 4-0 at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos. At the same time, AFC Leopards surrendered a first half lead to settle for a 1-1 draw with Posta Rangers in their opening match at Afraha Stadium in Nakuru. Ingwe grabbed the opener in the sixth minute when Brian Marita sent a shot past AFC Leopards goalkeeper Patrick Matasi but Rangers drew level in the 43rd minute through Danson Kago. Elsewhere, Ulinzi Stars coach Dunstan Nyaudo started life as coach of the team on a winning note, guiding the soldiers to beat Zoo Kericho 4-2 at Afraha Stadium. At Machakos Stadium, Gor’s Meddie Kagere picked up from where he left last season, striking three times to record the first hat trick of the season. Left back Wellington Ochieng added one of his own to complete the rout, with Nakumatt chasing shadows throughout the game. Cash-strapped Nakumatt struggled against K’Ogalo and heavily relied on the experience of Noah Abich at the back to keep the score decent. Nakumatt made limited signings in the December-January transfer period due to lack of funds, and it showed against a formidable K’Ogalo side. Nakumatt coach Anthony Mwangi started with Boniface Mukhekhe leading the attack, but he was unable to make significant impact as he lacked pace and was starved of the ball the better part of the game. Gor coach Dylan Kerr started with new signings Wesley Onguso, Humphrey Mieno and Kevin Omondi, with the latter partnering Kagere upfront. Joash Onyango took up the centre back position left by former captain Musa Mohammed, and partnered well with captain Harun Shakava. Kagere tipped the scales in the 14th minute when he ghosted into the left hand side of the goal mouth and blasted past Nakumatt goalkeeper Lucas Indeche. By this time, Nakumatt had made one shot on target through Abich, but they retreated immediately after this and threatened little for the rest of the first half. Gor’s midfielder Francis Kahata almost doubled the scores in the 37th minute with a wonderfully taken corner, but Indeche jumped high and tipped the ball over the cross bar. Gor came back stronger in the second half, and Kagere doubled his account just eight minutes into the second stanza with a powerful shot drilled accurately into the net. He completed his hat trick in the 80th minute. Three minutes later, Wellington Ochieng outran his marker and scored the fourth past Indeche. “We had six chances in the first half and we lost them all. That’s not good for the KPL. It is however a good start for us and a great motivator ahead of our  CAF Champions League match next weekend,” coach Kerr said after the match.   Wazito had camped in the sugar millers’ box .