Kenya Tourism Board (KTB) wants county governments engaged in formulation of a national calendar of events that help attract tourists to their jurisdictions. KTB chief executive Betty Radier said this would help complement the traditional wildlife safari and beach tourism products that have for years remained major attractions. Addressing journalists on Friday during a one-day policy briefing session in Nairobi, Dr Radier said cultural, sporting and food festivals by various communities should be included in the national calendar to help people plan to attend the events. “We need to create experiences that are unique to various regions and boost their value via engagement of local communities on this ventures.” “Only then will we attract investments creating jobs and increasing earnings for local communities,” she said. Dr Radier observed that devolution had opened Kenya’s hidden treasures with county governments now required to identify two tourism products that will be packaged as national attractions by the KTB. READ: Bid to market all county gems as a one-package deal She added that there was need for collaborative efforts by various government agencies to improve infrastructure thereby enabling local and foreign tourists to visit Kenya. The KTB, she said, will invest in social marketing where pictures and video clips of various events and features across Kenya will be posted on their various websites that promote Kenya as a destination. “Away from the traditional bed, wildlife and beaches tourist, today’s tourist is an adventurer out to trek, ride, watch events, sample foods, dance all night and have all activities posted on various social media for their families and communities to see,” she observed. Dr Radier said Kenyans and the media had a major role to play in marketing Kenya as a peaceful destination with lots of fun and adventure to offer. The one day forum was organised by Strathmore University for business journalists which is aimed at strengthening reporting skills on key sub-sectors that boost the economy.  