The big day that pronounces love is around. It is time for the young and young at heart to express their love for each other in the name of St Valentine and share the joys associated with this celebration. Relationships and marriages are proposed, gifts are exchanged as Cupid blesses the romantics associations. St Valentine’s Day in these times is not just for the followers of one religious doctrine or for those who uphold the ancient Roman tradition relating to the celebration of love, but its message of love has spread the world over. It is fashionable amongst the young to display affection irrespective of their faith class or creed. In India and the Islamic world traditionalists consider the celebration to be a cultural contamination from the west and alien to the norms of religious and cultural beliefs. Having said that the liberals argue that love lifts us up where we belong and the celebration is a unifying factor that fosters peace and understanding. TRADITION OF LOVE I was fascinated to read about the tradition of love in a couple of major cultures of the world and take this liberty to share it with the readers. In India for centuries there was a tradition of adoring Kamadeva-the lord of love: this is exemplified in the erotic carvings in the Khajurao Caves and by the writing of Kamasutra– a treatise to love making. The tradition was lost around the Middle Ages. In modern India especially amongst the urban youth, Valentine’s Day celebration has taken over despite protests by traditionalists. In Iran, Valentine’s Day has been criticised by religious heads who find it opposed to Islamic culture. Printing of cards, exchanging gifts and promoting Valentine activities were banned. AFFECTIONATE HEARTS Love certainly is a many-splendored thing. Be it in the name of Saint Valentine or any other godman, Cupid’s arrows will continue to aim at affectionate hearts and Kamadeva will continue to bless those in love. All we need is love, peace and unity for a fruitful existence. May we be blessed during this festival of love. For pictures, visit the arts and culture section on www.nation.co.ke    Email: qureshi@simbatech.biz  