Deputy governors have opposed some sections of the County Governments Amendment Bill sponsored by Senate Leader of Majority Kipchumba Murkomen. The deputy county chiefs cited some sections of the bill that bar them from acting for 60 days in case a governor dies or exits before being sworn into office. The deputy governor’s forum chairman, Mr Joash Maangi, said they were against the proposal, saying deputies should assume office in case of such an eventuality. “Under no circumstances should we go for a fresh election if the deputy governor is still alive,” the Kisii deputy governor said. He termed it a bad proposal but also concurred with some of the provisions that address the lacuna in law. APPOINTMENTThe bill states that a governor will make the appointment within 14 days of the office becoming vacant, but with the approval of the county assemblies. If approved by Parliament, governors will have powers to appoint their deputies should a vacancy arise. The proposed law seeks to address gaps in the Constitution. “On this, we fully concur as it allows a governor to appoint a substantive deputy,” Mr Maangi added. Uasin Gishu deputy governor Daniel Chemno echoed similar sentiments, saying it was necessary for the governors and their deputies to sit together in a public participation forum to help thrash out the thorny issues. “We should have a bill that serves posterity and one that addresses the existing gaps in the Constitution,” he said. ROLESHowever, the two voiced their support for a bill amending the 2012 County Government Act to provide for a framework for the assumption of office for the deputy governors. “My passionate appeal is that the County Government (Amendment) Bill and the Senate Bill No 11 of 2017 be fast-tracked at the Senate to define clear roles of the deputy governors as opposed to legislating relationship,” Mr Maangi said. Mr Maangi, while addressing his colleagues during the two-day forum at a Naivasha hotel, urged them to discharge their roles without undermining their bosses. “We should have a cordial working relationship and stop the squabbles that we have witnessed in the past,” he said. PLEDGESThe Kisii leader told the deputies that being second in command at the county level meant they were “heir apparent”, hence standing a better chance of succeeding their bosses. “But you can only succeed by complementing the work of the governors but not engaging in superiority battles.” Homa Bay deputy governor Hamilton Orata said they “had unanimously agreed” to support county chiefs in delivering promises made to the electorate.  