An obituary in the advertising pages of the Nation is referred to as a death and funeral announcement. It’s a tribute to a loved one as well as a notice of their death. Most of the obituaries in the Nation read the same way except for details about the deceased and their family ties. They mostly begin with the words: “It is with deep sorrow that …” The controversial “James Richard Wanjagi” announcement began with the same words. But for the portrait, it could have passed for a genuine announcement. DEATH ANNOUNCEMENT However, Jimi Wanjigi, his family and friends must have been surprised to read the thinly disguised announcement of his death and funeral in the Daily Nation of Wednesday this week. They may also have been distressed. Mention of death of a family member is emotive. All the same, Mr Wanjigi has joined a long list of famous people who have been erroneously killed off by the media. They include historical figures such as Pope John Paul II, Marcus Garvey, and Alfred Nobel. Pope John Paul II was the subject of three false death announcements. NOBEL PRIZE Black nationalist Marcus Garvey was incorrectly reported to have died after suffering a heart attack. But he died as a result of suffering a second stroke after reading his obituary in the Chicago Defender on January 1940. In 1888, arms manufacturer and founder of the Nobel Prize, Alfred Nobel, was reported in a French newspaper to have died as a “merchant of death”. It was his brother Ludwig who had died. But the condemnation in the premature obituary is reported to have caused him to create the Nobel Prize when he finally died in 1896 so as to save his legacy. Big media including CNN, BBC, The New York Times and Times of London have all been caught up in publishing false death reports. The BBC, for example, announced on May 17, 2010 that “Queen Elizabeth II has now died”. In 2003, CNN accidentally released draft obituaries for seven world figures, including Nelson Mandela, who died in 2013. FAKED DEATH In 1969, The New York Times published the obituary of civil rights activist and political candidate Grady O'Cummings III, who lived for another seven years. O’Cummings had faked his own death due to threats against his life. In 1920, The Times printed an obituary of Lord Desborough, a famous sportsman and politician, instead of that of Lord Bessborough, a barrister who had died. Lord Desborough lived for another 25 years. In Kenya, media announcements of false deaths of prominent people are rare, the last one being that of politician-cum-business tycoon Njenga Karume who The Standard and NTV killed off in 2012 on their Facebook and Twitter pages, some 20 days before he died on February 24. DUE DILIGENCEThere are many reasons why editors mistakenly publish obituaries of people who are still alive. I shall mention only three. The first is when a person is a victim of a life-threatening accident or illness and the media prematurely publishes an obituary as a result of lack of due diligence as happened in the Njenga Karume case. In such a case, they are entirely to blame for the premature obituary. The second is when media accidentally release the obituary of a famous person before they die. APOLOGY This is what CNN did in 2003. News organisations worth their salt write in advance obituaries of famous people, especially those who are old or in poor health, so that when they die they can publish them immediately. The media have no defence for publishing such obituaries prematurely. The third reason is when somebody plants a false death announcement. This is the most difficult one to deal with. This is what happened in the “James Richard Wanjagi” death and funeral announcement. The best a newspaper can do is to apologise and retract. This is what the Nation did. It promptly retracted its mistake and published a correction, preventing the false obituary from causing further harm. Send your complaints to publiceditor@ke.nationmedia.com. Text or call 0721 989 264.  