A group of Kisii and Nyamira residents are planning to crown Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati as Gusii community spokesperson despite opposition from the Gusii Council of elders. The elders have vowed never to allow such a ceremony take place anywhere in Kisii land. While addressing journalists on Saturday at Mwalimu Hotel, about 100 residents among them elderly men, youth and women, said Mr Arati had showed his ability to unify the community without prejudice. LEADER “The installation preparations are on course and unstoppable,” the group said in a written statement. The last Gusii community spokesman was former Finance Minister Simeon Nyachae. He took the position after he managed to galvanise the entire community behind his Presidential bid on a Ford-People ticket in the 2002 General Election. During that election, Mr Nyachae managed to have all the 10 elected MPs in the region elected on his party ticket. Zablon Nyangena said that the community has suffered under the hands of previous selfish leaders whose sole interest was to fight for their welfare and not that of the community. “We know the move to dismiss Mr Arati’s installation came from a section of people masquerading as Gusii elders and who have failed to give proper guidance to our society,” he said. Beavon Magare said proper consultations were done and the idea to have Mr Arati as community’s spokesperson endorsed unanimously by people across all age groups. “Time and venue for the historical event will be communicated within the shortest time possible,” he said. But Gusii council of elders Chairman James Matundura said Mr Arati had no blessings of the elders to seek the position. Mr Matundura said that they had scrutinised the political history of the MP in his tenure as a councillor and a lawmaker in Nairobi and that he is not qualified to the spokesman of the Gusii community. “We have been surprised by reports that Arati is planning to be crowned as the Gusii community spokesman, yet we have not even been consulted on the matter,” said Mr Matundura. The elders said that they have very senior leaders from the community who include Governor James Ongwae, Governor John Nyagarama, Senator Sam Ongeri and the Chief Administrative Secretary Ministry of Transport Chris Obure yet they have not sought that position. “Even if we were to appoint a community spokesman Arati does not feature anywhere, we have senior leaders fit for the position,” said Mr Matundura.  