President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto should forget the Tharaka-Nithi's support if they do not consider people from the county in the ongoing Cabinet appointments, Governor Muthomi Njuki has said. Speaking during an event at the county headquarters Kathwana on Monday, Mr Njuki said he does not regret making the remarks because he is expressing the feelings of the people. “Let the President clearly know that we are still watching and waiting as he continues to appoint principal secretaries and ambassadors without picking one from our county,” said Mr Njuki. He added that if Mr Kenyatta will exhausts the jobs without appointing someone from the region, no one from Jubilee government should expect support in 2022. In what seemed to be an attack on Senator Kithure Kindiki, the county boss said he had nothing to lose by speaking his mind. “I am not appointed by anybody but elected by my people,” he said. Last Friday during an event at Chiakariga Girls’ High School in Tharaka Constituency, the governor publically differed with Prof Kindiki on whether the county should withdraw its support for Jubilee government if no more people are appointed from the region. Prof Kindiki argued that residents should remain solidly behind Mr Kenyatta because he had good plans for them and had commissioned a lot of development projects than any other president. Mr Njuki noted at Kathwana that politics and leadership were not like a choir where all people are expected to sing in unison especially when things are not going on well for the people they represent. He added that Mr President cannot argue that there are no qualified people in Tharaka-Nithi County noting that there were very many professionals than many other counties who are qualified for the state jobs. “Our people voted for Mr Kenyatta and Mr Ruto overwhelmingly in both the August and October polls and we expect the duo to reciprocate with big things as well,” he said. The difference in opinions between the two Jubilee leaders has been received with mixed reactions by the locals with some accusing Prof Kindiki of being a blind loyalists and others terming Mr Njuki as a fearless politician who will always present his voters grievances fearlessly. Other county leaders who have publically expressed disappointment with President’s failure to appoint a cabinet secretary from the region include MPs Gitonga Murugara (Tharaka), Patrick Munene (Chuka/Igambangombe) and Kareke Mbiuki (Maara) and Woman Representative Beatrice Nkatha. So far, the county has one slot in the Cabinet - Principal Secretary of Higher Education Prof Micheni Ntiba.  