The 2018 National Super League (NSL), involving 19 clubs, kicks off this weekend with nine matches lined up. Palos FC, who finished eighth in the 2017 season, withdrew from this year’s league and their slot has been filled by Kisumu All Stars. New entrants Kangemi All Stars, who gained promotion from Division One League, will appear for their opener against Bidco United at Hope Centre from 2pm, while Kibera Black Stars battles Global Field Evangelism (GFE 105) at the same venue. Leonard Saleh recently appointed the head coach of Bidco said: “We have had trials to beef up the squad and the players are responding very well after two weeks of serious training .” Ushuru FC will be at Camp Toyoyo to face Administration Police as they seek to return to the top flight league after missing out narrowly last season. Isibania host former Kenyan Premier League side Nakuru All Stars at Awendo Stadium in a 3pm kick-off. The Migori County-based side, who bolstered their squad by signing 13 players, will play their home matches in Awendo until Football Kenya Federation inspects and approves their Customs Arena home ground in Isibania. Debutantes Kisumu All Stars, who were officially launched on Friday at Simba Club in Kisumu ahead of their league debut, will at home to entertain St. Joseph’s Youth at Moi Stadium. In another match starting at 1pm, FC Talanta will be away to Kenya Police at Karuturi in Naivasha. In Sunday’s fixtures, Nairobi City Stars face Nairobi Stima at Camp Toyoyo from 2pm, before Kenya Commercial Bank take on Muhoroni Youth from 4:15pm. Muhoroni will be starting their guest to bounce back to the Premiership after they were relegated alongside Western Stima who will host Modern Coast at Moi Stadium in Kisumu. Newly promoted Green Commandos begin their life in the second tier league on Monday with a home match against Coast Stima at Bukhungu Stadium. FIXTURES Saturday: Kangemi All Stars v Bidco United (Hope Centre, 2pm- Bamba TV), Kibera Black Stars v GFE 105 (Hope Centre, 4:14pm-Bamba TV), Kenya Police v FC Talanta (Karuturi, 1pm), Isibania v Nakuru All Stars (Awendo Stadium, 3pm), Ushuru FC v Admin. Police, Camp Toyoyo, 3pm), Kisumu All Stars v St. Joseph’s Youth (Moi Stadium, Kisumu, 3pm) Sunday: Nairobi City Stars v Nairobi Stima (Camp Toyoyo, 2pm-Bamba TV), KCB v Muhoroni Youth (Camp Toyoyo, 4:15- Bamba TV), Western Stima v Modern Coast Rangers (Moi Stadium, 3pm) Monday 12/2: Green Commandos v Coast Stima (Bukhungu Stadium, 3pm)   Homeboyz will be looking to contain Sofapaka.