Political grandstanding and premature succession politics could derail service delivery in Kisumu. When Governor Peter Anyang’ Nyong’o was elected on August 8, 2017, many people had high expectations that his administration would serve them better as compared to his predecessor Jack Ranguma, who did not have cordial working relationship with his deputy Ruth Odinga. Locals are so far dissatisfied with the governor but have expressed confidence that there is still time for the incumbent to work with other leaders and turn around the county. Kisumu City Residents Voice chairman Audi Ogada said that all is not lost yet as the leadership can still unite and work for the common good of the people. OUTA REJECTEDBut it is the gubernatorial succession debate, stirred by Senator Fred Outa at a funeral in Nyando Constituency two weeks ago, that threatens to derail delivery of services in Kisumu and “return it to the old order”. The debate, instigated by Mr Outa during the burial of Voice of Salvation and Healing church (VOSH) Archbishop Silas Owiti, returned to haunt him on Friday when residents ejected him from Prof Nyong’o’s thanksgiving ceremony following his return from the United States after a successful hip bone surgery. The governor had been in the US for more than two months. Mr Outa and Kisumu Central MP Fred Ouda had to scamper for safety after Prof Nyong’o’s supporters turned on them, accusing them of undermining the county leadership. MEDICAL SITUATIONMr Ouda was blamed for allegedly being an absentee leader. Nyakach MP Aduma Owuor kicked the storm after he accused Senator Outa of being behind the scheme to take over from Governor Nyong’o, who sought special medication at the University of California Hospital in the US. “When you were away, some busy bodies were going round peddling lies that you promised them to take over from you in case of your death,” Mr Owuor told the crowd, which had gathered at Jomo Kenyatta Sports Ground. He went on: “We don’t want some new entrants in politics to cause confusion in this county since there is no leadership vacuum. We want to tell our senator to work with Prof Nyong’o or face the wrath of Kisumu electorates,” he said. OUTA JEEREDMr Outa had during the funeral in Nyando declared that Prof Nyong’o had agreed to back him for the governor post at the end of his first term. Senator Outa’s attempt to address the public during the gathering were unsuccessful as people booed him. “I know this has been planned by some people who want to undermine my leadership. We will destroy this beautiful county if this is the direction you want us to take,” he said. Mr Outa accused county ODM chairman Kennedy Ajwang’ for the booing. Mr Ajwang’ however said he had nothing to do with the jeering. On Saturday, Mrs Odinga, speaking on phone from London, called for political tolerance and cautioned against succession politics debate. MPs from the county have called for tolerance, warning the war of words would derail services.   Kisumu governor underwent a successful hipbone surgery in California.