The National Super Alliance (Nasa) has written to the Speaker of the National Assembly, Justin Muturi, over the withdrawal of security for legislators who graced the Tuesday “swearing-in” of Mr Raila Odinga as the people’s president. The coalition, through Minority Whip Junet Mohammed, has accused the executive of using State organs to perpetuate a culture of impunity and asked Mr Muturi to “rise to the occasion” and reject the abuse of the law. RAISE MATTER WITH EXECUTIVE “I urge you to forcefully raise this matter with the executive. Failure to do so – may I remind you of an African saying that sums up our current situation: When your neighbour’s house is on fire, no need to begin building a dam,” Mr Mohammed says in the letter dated January 31. The letter is copied to the Clerk of the National Assembly Michael Sialai and Leader of Minority John Mbadi. On Tuesday, Nasa leader Raila Odinga lived up to his threat and was sworn in as the people’s president during a ceremony held at Uhuru Park which was graced by nearly half of the coalition’s MPs. The following morning the government recalled security officers attached to all the legislators who attended the ceremony that was also skipped by Mr Odinga’s co-principals in the coalition – Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula. SURRENDER FIREARMS The officers were ordered to report to the police headquarters where they were told to surrender their firearms before they were redeployed. However, Mr Mohammed, in his letter, did not say how many legislators were affected by the directive. He gave an estimation of about 70 MPs who attended the Tuesday ceremony. In the letter, Nasa reminded the Speaker that the withdrawal did not follow laid down procedures and neither is there information that it was sanctioned by the Parliamentary Service Commission (PSC) which is charged with the management and welfare of MPs. “Nothing portrays the illegitimacy and incompetence of the executive than these illegal, reprehensible and totally primitive reactions to a political reality whose solution lies elsewhere,” Mr Mohammed wrote. NOT A FAVOUR He added, “Security of members is not a favour being extended by the executive. It is a cardinal duty. And Kenyans including MPs, pay taxes to ensure every citizen is protected and secured.” Mr Mohammed, who is also the Suna East MP, warned Mr Muturi that the flagrant abuse of the law by the executive could lead to more chaos if left to fester, adding that it serves to weaken the lawful authority of Parliament. “There have been laws passed by this parliament on fair administrative justice. It is unthinkable that State organs still act in stark contravention of these laws and are courageous enough to target those who make these laws on behalf of the people.”  