Muthaiga Golf Club’s Christine Ocholla emerged the overall winner of the second leg of the Barclays Golf Series at the par 72 Karen Country Club on course on Friday. And like the winner of the first leg Andrew Chelogoi in Eldoret last September, Ocholla, playing off handicap 27, carded an amazing 45 points to beat a field of 150 players. During the first leg at the nine hole Eldoret course, Chelogoi who is also the chairman of the club, fired four under par 45 points in a round that included five birdies and a single bogey. However, at Karen on Friday, Ocholla only needed six pars, including three of the course’s par five, to put together a superb winning score of 45 points. On the other hand, Limuru Country Club’s Davies Maina returned a total of 43 points, a score that included 10 pars to beat Tom Simba by one as Railway’s Caren Agengo carded 41 points to claim the ladies first prize, four points from home player Betty Gacheru. Two other Karen players Irene Auma and Robert Keter won the first and second nine with scores of 23 and 22 points. Moses Kiboi, also a Karen member, won the staff prize with 34 points but after beating Omar Yusuf of Muthaiga on countback. Davies Maina also led his team of L.Munyua and D. Hotte to claim the team prize with a score of 38 points. Speaking during the prize giving ceremony at Karen, Barclays Bank’s director of legal and Compliance Laban Onmangi said over the past seven years, Barclays have walked hand in hand with the Kenya Open Golf Limited and other partners to contribute to the success of golf in Kenya. He said this year was special because it marks the 50th anniversary of the Kenya Open. “In celebration of this milestone, we have organised a number of activities including a six-tournament golf series that will be held in six major Kenyan towns in the run up to the main tournament next month. ‘‘Today was the second leg of this series, having started in Eldoret Golf Club late last year, and I must say thank you to the Karen Country Club for ensuring that we had a great experience both on and off the course". Omangi said the series will be  heading to Nakuru for the Nakuru Open at the Nakuru Golf Club this Saturday, then the Kisumu Open at the Nyanza Golf Club on February 24. Other events will be the Pwani Open at the Nyali Golf Club on March 3 March, and the Mt Kenya Open at Thika Sports Club on March 10. “Through the series, we are aiming to bring the Barclays Kenya Open experience to local clubs across the country,” said Omanga. He added: “We shall also be conducting golf clinics for new and aspiring golfers, including junior golfers, as part of our commitment to growing the game of golf in Kenya."  