A clan clash is looming in Lafey Sub-County, Mandera County after armed men ambushed a contractor while on site on Friday morning. Warankara Ward Rep Ahmed Gabman Ali said suspected clan militia armed with firearms arrived at the site located at Sogle area at 5am. “There was a fierce fire exchange between what is suspected to be clan militias and the police reservists guarding equipment at the site. Most equipment including tractors at the site have been destroyed,” he said. The MCA blamed the national government for failing to specify the exact site of the water pan in the ward. “Locals agreed to have the water source build at Sogle area but some leaders from other clans around have interest in the project and are trying to relocate the project,” he said. He said the national government did not specify the exact site but only talked of Warankara. “Wankara is a ward but this projected is needed at Sogle area for the livestock in grazing fields. The national government did not point out Sogle but only talked of Warankara and this bringing a conflict now,” he said. Mr Ali described the dawn incident as unfortunate and called on fellow leaders to stop inciting locals but agree on the exact site for the project. “We need to stop this habit of inciting our people against each other but instead come on the negotiating table and agree on saving lives of both human and livestock by having this project completed,” pleaded Mr Ali. Mandera County Commissioner Kutswa Olaka confirmed the incident stating that no casualties were reported. “There was an incident but I am yet to know why the contractor chose to go on site when we are still having some unresolved issues,” said Mr Olaka. Mr Olaka said the national government was funding the project through the equalization funds and called on local leadership to agree on the way forward for the project. “We shall be meeting with leaders of both sides so that we can agree on the exact site of the project and they should commit themselves on that,” he said. Mr Olaka said all his sources indicated no one was injured during the incident insisting that youths were only being mobilized on sighting the contractor. According to the county commissioner, the ministry of water in Nairobi is yet to clarify on the exact site of the water source. The disputed area is inhabited by members Murule clan neighbouring the Garre community residing in the Mandera South and North sub counties. “That project will not kick off until we get to know the exact site and the communities living there agree on it,” said Mr Olaka.  