Crisis looms in Cricket Kenya (CK) after the resignation of the chairlady, Jackie Janmohamed on Saturday. The CK Treasurer, Ravi Kaul, Monday said that Janmohamed handed her resignation letter to CK General Manager, Josephat Murithi, who also acts as the secretary of the board. But Murithi could not be reached for comment as he is attending an International Conference on Communication at Kansas City, USA that runs from February 20 to 24. Abhijeet Raja Sarkar, the CK Director of Development and Tom Tikolo, the Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association (NPCA) chairman, are said to have tendered their resignation letters along with Janmaohamed. As there was no official communication from CK, it is difficult to ascertain how many CK officials remain on board. The CK elective posts are that of chairlady, vice-chairman and treasurer. The other members are two officials from both NPCA and Coast Cricket Association. This is the second time Janmohammed has reigned from CK. She called it a day on July 2012, the same year she came into office, but her board members convinced her to rescind her decision. However, this time round, matters are different and it appears even her board members are jumping from the sinking ship. Janmohamed resigned the day Kenya team returned from Namibia, where they had a disastrous performance in the ICC World Cricket League Division Two. Kenya left Namibia without registering a single win and finished bottom of the table with zero points. Kenya was demoted once again from Division two to Division Three. It is a bad year for Team Kenya as they dropped from Division One to Two and now Three annd are in danger of further dropping to Division Four before the end of the year. The national team coach, Thomas Odoyo, was a frustrated man. The one week we spent in Namibia was a week of mental anguish. It was stressful and I would not wish anyone to go through what I went through.” He added: “We broke record of poor performance. For Kenya to improve we must set up a high performance centre.” Odoyo said that some players in the national squad lack tactical awareness of the game which is learnt at the under-15 level. Odoyo’s assistant, Peter Ong’ondo, who was team manager in Namibia, said that he will return to Nakuru where he was an elite coach.   Nairobi-based lawyer Jackie Janmohamed made history on Sunday when she was elected Cricket Kenya chairperson unopposed at the Ruaraka Sports Club.