The police have been accused of taking advantage of perceived vacuum in the office of Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) to bring flimsy charges against individuals. Other than Ruaraka MP TJ Kajwang’, controversial blogger Cyprian Nyakundi was arraigned in court this week on charges that have already been quashed by the High Court. A number of lawyers are now convinced such cases may hit a dead end because there were no express instructions from the DPP’s office. READ: Debate arises on fate of cases in DPP's absence TRIBUNALLawyers who spoke to the Sunday Nation argued that the law never envisaged a situation where there is a vacuum in the office of the DPP. And to stop the confusion, President Uhuru Kenyatta should have appointed a tribunal to invite applicants for the vacant position, 14 days after Mr Keriako Tobiko handed in his resignation letter. Mr Tobiko was nominated as Cabinet Secretary of Environment and Forestry. On Friday, President Kenyatta named a seven-member committee to start the recruitment process. In the Gazette notice, dated February 2, those appointed to the selection panel include Kennedy Kihara (Office of the President), Ms Maryann Njau (Attorney-General’s office) and Ms Lilian Omollo (Ministry of Public Service). Others are Ms Kagwiria Mbogori (Kenya National Commission on Human Rights), Ms Elizabeth Muli (Law Society of Kenya), Mr Francis Atwoli (Central Organisation of Trade Unions) and Mr Halakhe Waqo (Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission). KAJWANG' ARRESTAccording to lawyer Nelson Havi, all the cases brought in the absence of DPP “will be thrown out”. He said the charge brought against Mr Kajwang’, who, on Thursday, was accused of aiding Mr Raila Odinga to take an oath, is defective because the charge sheet was signed by a police officer and not the DPP. Article 157(7) of the Constitution states that the powers of the DPP may be exercised in person or by subordinate officers acting in accordance with general or specific instructions. Mr Havi however said: “Even if a state counsel signs the charge sheet, on whose behalf is he or she signing? All the charges brought during the absence of the DPP will be thrown out,” he said. CHARGE SHEETThe lawyer said the office of the DPP was carved out of the Attorney-General’s office to ensure independence. “That means that no one else can give instructions unless it is the DPP,” he said. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Junior agrees, saying that all the prosecutions must be consented by the DPP, especially the serious charges. “That is why they (the police) looked confused before they charged Mr Kajwang’. They were not sure whether to charge him or not,” he said. The lawyer also faulted the charges against Mr Kajwang’ stating that the charge contains a capital element (treason) and, in his view, the prosecution should have taken the MP before a judge and not a magistrate. PETTY OFFENCESAnother lawyer, James Mwamu, said constitutional matters can only be taken to court with the express direction of the DPP. However, he said, petty offences (misdemeanours) can be taken to court in the absence of the DPP. He said failure to appoint the DPP soon might see most cases collapse just like it happened with corruption cases brought by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) in the absence of the commissioners. All the 125 cases were withdrawn after one of the fraud cases was quashed. But Mr Soyinka Lempaa disagreed, saying that it is the office and not the person who recommends the charges. According to the lawyer, there can never be a vacuum in the DPP’s office. “It is a question of access to justice, both to the victim of the crime and the accused person. "Yes it is an independent office with a group of individuals and the DPP can delegate the job to any person in his office,” he said. CIVIL SUITMr Samuel Ndegwa agreed with Mr Lempaa, stating that a murderer cannot be let free because an accused person was taken to court without the DPP’s consent. “The Constitution created an office. If the Constitution wanted the orders to expressly come from the DPP himself, the framers of the document would have stated so,” he said. Nyakundi, a blogger, was charged with allegedly posting obscene information against Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i. Mr Havi said the High Court clearly stated that you cannot criminalise defamation. “If Dr Matiang’i is not happy with what Nyakundi allegedly posted, let him file a civil suit,” he said, adding that he will represent the blogger when the case comes up for mention. FLIMSY CHARGE Mr Nyakundi denied publishing and posting the obscene information in his Twitter account on January 22, 2018. Dr Matiang’i has been listed as the complainant and the first prosecution witness. A State prosecutor, Solomon Naulikha, told Senior Principal Magistrate Kennedy Cheruiyot that the blogger circulated the unprintable words against Dr Matiang’i with the aim of tarnishing his name and making him appear corrupt in the eyes of the general public. But lawyer Mwamu said the court had quashed such charges, adding that it was a “flimsy charge and I am sure the office of the DPP would not consent to such a charge because it embarrasses the office”, he said. Mutula said that the best way for Dr Matiang’i, if he felt aggrieved by the publication, was to file for damages. DEFAMATION In a landmark decision last year, Justice John Mativo said that criminal defamation is not justifiable in a democratic society. “I therefore find and hold that the petitioners have succeeded in demonstrating that the offence of criminal defamation is not reasonably justifiable in a democratic society, hence criminal sanctions on speech ought to be reserved for the most serious cases particularised under Article 33 (2) (a)- (d) of the Constitution aimed at protecting public interest,” Justice Mativo said. In the case, Jacqueline Okuta and Jackson Njeru had separately been charged with criminal defamation for posting items on their Facebook pages. The punishment imposed upon conviction for a misdemeanour, including defamation, is a maximum of two years in prison and or a fine.   The seven-member panel includes individuals representing different bodies.