Cycling and swimming are the only disciplines that are yet to name their squads for the 2018 Gold Coast Commonwealth Games due April 4 to 15 in Australia. Chef de mission Barnaba Korir indicated that cycling should name their side of four cyclists before the end of the week after having taken part in an African Continental Road Championships last weekend in Rwanda. Swimming will pick their squad of two male and three female swimmers after the three-day National Swimming Gala starting Friday at Kasarani. Korir said that shooting, badminton and para-swimming are the latest to have named their teams as Team Kenya prepares to go to camp officially on March 3 at various venues in the country. Salim Kipkemboi was the best placed Kenyan in 15th place in the continental cycling championships in Rwanda, where Eritrean Amanuel Gebreigzabhier won the race. Others who took part and are battling for the four available slots are veteran David Kinjah, Suleiman Kangangi, Geoffrey Lagat, Peter Gathere, Joseph Gichora and Geoffrey Wekesa. Briefing the media Tuesday in Nairobi on the progress that have been made ahead of the “Club” Games, Korir said shooting have completed their selection with the inclusion of women firers Linet Owiti and Maryanne Cheruiyot respectively. Owiti, who is making her second appearance at the “Club” Games and debutant Cheruiyot, will compete in women’s 10metre air pistol shoot. Owiti, a civilian, competed at the 2010 Delhi and 2014 Glasgow Games, finishing 27th in the qualifying round and failed to advance to the final. Owiti and Cheruiyot, a pilot by profession, join three other firers Gurupreet Dhanjal and Gulraaj Sehmi from small-bore and Christopher Saina in full-bore. Kenya will be represented by Mercy Joseph and Victor Odera in badminton after the duo prevailed during the two-day selection over the weekend. Anne Wacuka, who got a universal card, will feature in 50m and 100m freestyle in para swimming. Korir said even though they are faced with training venue challenges especially for athletics with Kasarani and Nyayo National Stadium under renovation, they will put up with what they have. Athletics team that has the highest contingent of 65 athletes will use the warm up track for training, but Korir noted that they will be forced to seek accommodation, elsewhere since the hostels at Kasarani are also under renovation. Boxing team will put up in Nakuru, triathlon team will training in Mombasa and Eldoret, while cycling team will camp in Muranga. Korir said the government is expected to release funds for training by Wednesday this week, adding that the team’s documentation and accreditation is going on smoothly, with Kenya Airways taking over as Team Kenya carrier to the “Club” Games. The team will leave for Gold Coast in batches via Bangkok, Thailand. The first team leaves on March 24 followed by the next on March 26 and March 30 respectively. From Bangkok the team will connect to Brisbane, Australia from where the team will travel by bus to Gold Coast. Athletics marathon teams will be the last to leave on April 8, since their events are on the final day of the competition on April 15. Kenya will be represented by a contingent of 220 at the Gold Coast Games, which includes 137 athletes supported by a a technical wing of 57 coaches and managers. The remaining 31 personnel comprises 20 members of the steering committee, Games’ attaché and two deputies and six technical officials and two coaches, who have been invited by the Commonwealth Games Federation (CGF). Kenya will field in 16 disciplines; athletics, athletics para, swimming, badminton, boxing, cycling, bowling, rugby sevens (men and women), shooting, squash, table tennis, triathlon, weightlifting, para weightlifting, para swimming and wrestling.  