One step forward, two steps backwards. That is our lot in this country. They jingle goodies on your face until you start thinking some progress is in the offing and then they let you fall to a bottomless abyss, whishing through the air sans landing. You gasp for oxygen like a fish out of water but they mercilessly go on with the demagoguery until you don’t resist the fall anymore. Many of us give up hope and become sardonic to the facts and merely laugh at the rigmarole. They are the lucky one, those that find our football amusing and can throw hilarious jibes at the whole pretence to progress. Some of us are rather not that lucky. We take too much time trying to comprehend why our football and our national team cannot get better, we bang and clang our heads on hard walls following any stories about the team and we get no respite from the flogging we get from our football body. Just a few weeks ago, we were startled by the requests made by the Harambee Stars coach about the composition of the technical bench. He had a reasonable argument about it and set them forth very eloquently hoping that Football Kenya Federation have sane people that might comprehend the quagmire they threw him into and do something about it. No answer was forthcoming from that posse of people. Paul Put had to put up with the incompetence that surrounded him and try hard as he could to make it work with the national team. He was already lining up friendly matches against some of the best teams in Africa and when he realized he was being frustrated by the football body in this country, he quietly tendered his resignation and ceased being the coach of our national team. It is only those that are capable of laughing at our folly that took the matter lightly and must have nodded their heads in agreement with the foreknowledge that Put was too good for those he worked for. We too who still believe in this country had our doubts; we knew he was soon going to quit and we suspect our football officials had a very big hand in his frustration. Cheap is the beginning of extinction and cheap is what we seem to yearn for all the time. Changing his technical bench could have cost the federation some pile of money; it could also have forced them to give friendly matches for Harambee Stars and that is enough to make the president of FKF puke in disgust and worry in equal measure. The man is gone. Now FKF is very happy and must be slapping high fives in their suspect toilets. With the international friendlies out of the way, now they can play Comoros in Rabat with the bill footed by the island nation. It will be cheaper and they can also get some kickbacks from thence. It is congenial with a coach made in Kariobangi! Cheap is the beginning of extinction. Let us give up.  