Parliament is scheduled to vet Cabinet Secretary nominees this week to pave the way for their appointment by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The scrutiny of the seekers of top public officers is now a settled parliamentary practice. However, the way it is done often raises some fundamental questions about its value. Whereas the objective is to ensure that only the most qualified and morally upright ascend to those top positions, the process is often marred by political intrigue, ethnic interests and underhand dealings. JUBILEE PARTYIt seems these same factors will still come into play again this time round. The National Super Alliance has vowed it will not participate as part of its protest against last year’s elections. That pretty much leaves Jubilee Party to do the job alone. Since a political card is being played, it is obvious the members will approve all the nominees, if only to show their party’s supremacy. Unfortunately, it is the public that gets a raw deal. APPRAISALQuestions are being asked about the apparent selective vetting of the nominees. Only nine appear, while the rest of those who have been in office are left out presumably on the grounds they went through this in the last term. Opinions are divided because this is a grey area in law. But it is a matter worth debating. If President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto went back to the people for fresh mandates and took oaths for a new term, why shouldn’t their charges go for a fresh assessment to determine their continued suitability for office? INTEGRITYLurking in the background is the question about how Parliament will treat those appointed to the newly created position of chief administrative secretary, which is not provided for in law and does not have grading and job description within the government structure. This notwithstanding, Parliament should make a difference this time round. Members should do the right thing. They must conduct the vetting properly. They could even enlist the services of professionals to enable them to determine the suitability of the candidates for the various positions. Vetting should add value to public appointments; it should not be a ritual.  