Four days after Mr Raila Odinga swore to be the People’s President, he stands forlornly like the Tree of Tenere in the political wilderness; his reputation tattered beyond repair. All the reasonable and friendly people who were willing to speak to him in an attempt to extract reasonableness are giving him nil-by-mouth. His hired sycophants have abandoned him, and now the spaces deserted by hordes of his hopeless cheerleaders echo in the emptiness of his pretend presidency. At the 'swearing-in' ceremony, there was no spouse and no sword — not even a wooden imitation of any symbol of marital power, no Constitution and no judge and no army. AUTHORITYIf Mr Odinga really acquired any power from the 'swearing in', he should be dared to reduce the price of maize flour from the government-regulated price of Sh110 for a two-kilo packet. Or he could waive the electricity charges demurred from fuel costs last year. Or even remove the interest rate cap on lending for banks, reduce the national debt and reduce the cost of living before tackling real problems like unemployment, poverty and homelessness. He should be dared to reopen the shut television stations and solve the problems facing Kenya, and his predictable response will be to call for a referendum. ELECTIONSMr Odinga’s political future, limp and lifeless, lies deflated like a broken balloon beyond the rescue of any magical conjurer. His ethnic sidekicks have alienated him and abroad, he no longer holds his stature as an international statesman. The treason committed at Uhuru Park still hangs thick in the air like undispersed flatulence, and its brewers and beneficiaries deserve to be strung from the tallest Last Mile electricity post. After failing to get anyone but himself to declare him winner from four presidential elections, Mr Odinga has styled himself as an expert in winning referenda. OKOA KENYA It is not unlikely that having squeaked a victory from the Orange-Banana constitution campaign in 2005 and delivered a 62 per cent win for the Yes campaign for the Constitution of Kenya on August 2010, he believes himself to be a political gadfly. It is this self-belief that deluded him into launching the stillbirth attempt to generate another referendum in 2014 through the Okoa Kenya initiative by luring governors with more money for counties and electoral reform. His pre-literate supporters drew animals in place of their signatures and crashed that plane before takeoff. His incessant demands for so-called electoral justice after the Supreme Court declared the elections over are designed to force the country into holding another electioneering period in one year to cut short Mr Uhuru Kenyatta’s presidency. REFERENDUM His swearing-in suggests that he might have a million people ready and willing to force the country into a new round of electioneering. It is not beyond Mr Odinga to start collecting signatures for a petition to amend the Constitution through a popular initiative, seeking to settle opinion of whom between the People’s President and the President should rule over Kenya. Forbid that such a referendum should ask questions about secession. God will not agree. Previous suspicions that there might be kinks in the Constitution were settled by a professional socio-economic audit of its implementation (https://africacheck.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/SocialAudit2010.pdf) back in 2016. Were Mr Odinga’s demands to be accommodated out of political charity and creating a modicum of peace, the only questions Kenyans should debate and take to a referendum must surely be whether they really need all the democracy they have, or they want development under the gentle leadership of a firm hand. The writer is a Programme Adviser, Journalists for Justice. The views expressed here are his own and do not reflect those of JFJ.kwamchetsi@formandcontent.co.ke  