Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich has promised to fast track the allocation of money for construction of the Sh20 billion Koru-Soin dam. The multipurpose dam will end water shortage on the boundaries of Kericho, Nandi and Kisumu counties. The dam, whose construction was planned in the early 1980s, is also meant to control floods in the lower Nyando as well as generate hydroelectric power. The CS said he was aware of the biting water problem in the regions, and was planning to fund the project. “If Soin-Koru dam is the project that will get you water, then we will work with your senator (Aaron Cheruiyot) to have it funded,” he said. AGRICULTUREHe was speaking in Kabatok, Kericho County, during the burial of Mama Joyce Tuimising, a sister in-law of Energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter. Mr Cheruiyot said the construction of the water project should begin, noting that it will improve residents’ lives through agriculture, industrialisation among others. Mr Rotich said: “Most Kenyans were gracious enough to go to the polls after the courts ordered for a second presidential election. "What remains now is for the elected leaders and President Uhuru Kenyatta’s appointees to sit down together and work to ensure that the lives of citizens are improved.” ELECTRICITYMr Keter, after conveying a message of condolences from Deputy President William Ruto, said he would ensure that all homesteads are connected to electricity in the next two years. “In the next two years as the government works towards universal health care, I’ll also be working towards universal access to electricity so that in the set time, every homestead will be lit with electricity,” Mr Keter said. Present at the event was area MP Nelson Koech, Kipsengeret Koros (Soin-Sigowet), Sylvanus Maritim (Ainamoi) and MCAs who all took time to congratulate Mr Keter and Mr Rotich for their re-appointment to the Cabinet. Mr Cheruiyot told Nasa leader Raila Odinga to stop divisive politics, saying the electioneering period was long gone.  