Mrs Yvonne Wamalwa was buried on Saturday at her Milimani home in Kitale, Trans-Nzoia County. Although the well-attended ceremony was skipped by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Nasa leader Raila Odinga, supremacy politics dominated the funeral. WIDOW The widow of former Vice President Michael Kijana Wamalwa died in Nanyuki on January 25 and was buried next to her husband. She married Mr Wamalwa in 2003, a few months before the VP died on August 23 of the same year. At the time of her death, Mrs Wamalwa was the deputy director in charge of Asia and Australasia Directorate in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. POLITICS The family dismissed claims that she was jobless and accused local politicians of spreading rumours that she had been sacked by the Jubilee administration. Education CS Amina Mohammed, who was Yvonne's boss at the Foreign Affairs docket, dismissed claims that she had been sacked at the time of her death. "We shared many activities together and she was my sister whom we worked with," she said. The current political situation dominated the funeral despite the key political players being absent. Deputy President William Ruto represented President Kenyatta while Senate Minority Leader Moses Wetang’ula stood in for Mr Odinga. Mr Ruto used the opportunity to push back Nasa's demands for dialogue and fresh elections in the wake of Mr Odinga's controversial 'swearing-in' last Tuesday, saying the time for politics was over. The DP reiterated that the government was only ready to talk about development matters and would not accept discussions on how to share. LAW Although he did not mention directly Mr Odinga's oath as the people's president, the DP said no one would be allowed to disrespect the Constitution at will. "We must abide by the law and the Constitution. No one is above the law irrespective of who we are. We must submit to the dictates of the Kenyan Constitution," said Mr Ruto. Earlier, Opposition politicians from the region had asked the government to engage them and their leaders to resolve the current stalemate. Responding, the DP said time was over for talking on elections and sharing government positions. "They have asked us that we should talk but I am telling them we are ready to talk on how millions of unemployed youths will get jobs, how we will have enough food to avoid hunger, how Kenyans will benefit from NHIF and other developmental issues. These are discussions we want to have," he added. DIVISION Mr Ruto urged Kenyans to avoid politics of division, saying the country needs to move on. The DP, who read a condolence message on behalf of the President, urged Nasa leaders to prepare themselves for elections in 2022 instead of lying to Kenyans that the previous presidential polls would be nullified. Mr Ruto also assured Mr Wamalwa’s family that the government would pay fees for his children studying in Australia. He said that the late Yvonne’s sister, Jacky, would be offered a job in Australia so she could look after the children. MEDIA SHUTDOWN The DP was silent on the media shutdown despite pressure from local opposition leaders to switch back on three television stations. The government on Tuesday switched off KTN News, NTV and Citizen TV for airing live Mr Odinga's ceremony. Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa urged the government and Communications Authority of Kenya to obey the court order and restore broadcast for the three television stations. "We want to tell the government that they should allow shut down television stations to go back on air," he said. STALEMATE Mr Wetang’ula, who spoke before the DP, had said that the country was at a crossroad that required a national conversation. He said dialogue was the only solution to the current standoff before things got out of hand. "The country is in a state where dialogue is the only solution. I want to tell you if the government continues treating the Opposition this way it might be too late when they realise we need it," said the Bungoma senator. He faulted the government for withdrawing security officers attached to Nasa leaders. Mr Wetang’ula added that Nasa was more united than before despite him and co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka and Musalia Mudavadi missing Mr Odinga's oath ceremony at Uhuru Park. UNITY Majority of leaders from the Luhya community who addressed the mourners emphasised the importance of unity in the region. They thanked President Kenyatta and his deputy for appointing Luhyas to government. Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa, Yvonne’s brother-in-law, urged the Opposition to respect the Jubilee administration and allow it to work for Kenyans. "At no time have we leaders who come from Western, who are in government, disrespected and questioned those in Opposition," he said. There was a moment of concern when Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka recognised managing directors of parastatals present, including IEBC Chief Executive Ezra Chiloba. A large section of the crowd became restless when Mr Chiloba's name was mentioned but soon calmed down. The funeral was presided over by Bishop Maurice Crowley of Kitale Catholic Diocese.   Yvonne Wamalwa to be buried next to her husband at their Milimani home in Kitale.