Most marriages go through a rough patch sometime during their first few years. It’s scary and so you worry whether you’re going to make it. But your relationship’s probably doing better than you think. Because there are bound to be problems. But so long as you’re caring, kind and supportive, then things will be just fine. Because committed relationships aren’t all about romance. They’re mostly about figuring out how to push through the hard times as a team. So you’re doing better than you think if you laugh a lot together. You may not be as passionate as you once were, but those inside jokes show that deep down you’re good together. You’re doing well if you can argue without fighting. Constantly discussing everything means nothing will get out of hand. And that you’re learning good problem solving skills. You hardly ever see couples in novels and TV shows being kind, loving and considerate. But that’s the core of a strong relationship. So if you behave like that to one another, every day, then things are all right. Things are fine if you’re caring for one another - and for yourselves: emotionally, mentally and physically. Because successful relationships need a good balance of individuality and interdependence. Couples always consist of two very different people - even if you think you’re exactly alike. Because we’re attracted to people with different personalities. So you’re a good couple if you’re learning to build on each other’s strengths, resist criticising each other and are learning to enjoy your differences. You’re bound to get on each other’s nerves from time to time. But that’s not the end of the world. What matters is how you deal with the annoyances. You’re doing well if you’re learning to let the little things go and concentrating on building your love and commitment. There’s never an exact 50-50 split of responsibilities in a marriage. Good couples care so much for one another, that it’s difficult to say who’s doing more for the other. There’ll be times when one of you has to give 100 per cent, because the other can’t give anything. And then it goes the other way. And neither complains when it’s their turn to give all. Life’s busy for all of us. So you’re doing well if you schedule your time together. It’s a serious warning sign if one of you’s forever working late or socialising without the other. You’re in a good relationship if there are no secrets between you. So there’s work to do if you can’t open up to your partner, because you’re afraid of what they might say. You’re a great couple if you support each other in public. And don’t endlessly keep track of each other’s mistakes. And you’ve learned to forgive. And there aren’t any lingering issues that can’t be resolved. So don’t be tempted to compare your relationship to anyone else’s. Because every couple’s unique. And you’re probably doing better than you think.  nyumbayangu@me.com   These habits might sound trivial, cost nothing at all but will give your relationship more resilience