Bishops allied to one faction of African Independent Pentecostal Church (AIPCA) have resolved to reach out their rival camps and start reconciliation and end the leadership wrangles that has rocked the church over the years The bishops who support Archbishop Julius Njoroge have vowed to reach out leaders of other factions and ensure there is unity in the church which has experienced conflicts and confrontations in the recent past. In a meeting that was attended by community leader and government officials, 32 bishops from various parts of the country expressed their confidence that the process will reach to a successful end that will guarantee peace love and harmony  among the church leaders and members of the congregation. Leadership wrangles have rocked the independent church since last year following the retirement of Archbishop Amos Kabuthu which led to consecration of both Fredrick Wang’ombe and Julius Njoroge as Archbishops Immediately after Mr Njoroge took over top leadership of the church, another group fronted Archbishop Fredrick Wang’ombe leading to conflicts and disorder in the church. Speaking while addressing the bishops at a Murang’a hotel, Mr Njoroge said he is will be meeting with Mr Wang’ombe to start the reconciliating process. “We have been scheduling meeting among leaders who have been operating parallel with the main church but due to various factors the meetings have not materialized,” said Mr Njoroge adding that the leaders have agreed to attend the meeting schedule on Saturday. He explained that there are four factions in the church which each group has its own leader and operate by itself. “We have one faction called AIPCK led by John Mwaura, another group dubbed Eastern Dioceses led by Samson Muthuri and the third faction is led by Wang’ombe,” the Archbishop noted. Representing the government in the meeting, Murang’a East Deputy County Commissioner Kepha Marube urged the bishops to embrace peaceful conflict resolutions mechanisms and avoid fighting in churches. He said church leaders are role models in the society and engaging in fights during church services forcing police to intervene, taints reputation of members of clergy. Mr Marube reiterated that the government will support the church to reach a solution in ending the chaos that has marred it for several years.  