Assuming US President Donald Trump survives self-inflicted wounds, it seems he’s bound to have a “tremendous, wonderful” ad infinitum relationship with most African leaders. A few days after equating the continent with El Salvador and Haiti, two countries one needs an enlarged world map to find in his “s***hole” countries list, he wrote a letter to the African Union. The AU leaders were holding their annual “scaratch-me-back-I’ll scratch-you-back” annual summit in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. In the letter the previous weekend, Mr Trump did some scratching. He said he “deeply respects the people” of Africa and relations with African nations remain “firm”. TILLERSON VISITUnlike in the past when the United States sent a high-level delegation from Washington, Mr Trump left the US ambassador to the AU to console the “s***hole” dwellers. Respect indeed. Additional respect: The letter announced Secretary of State Rex Tillerson will make an extended visit to the continent - presumably including “Nambia” - next month. Expect ex-oil Tillerson to visit Nigeria, Angola and Equatorial Guinea. Anyway, the Excellencies in Addis Ababa reciprocated. It’s worthy of note the bureaucrats at the AU weren’t amused by Mr Trump’s inclusion in the ‘s***hole” of peoples long proudly immune to insults from the so-called civilized nations. PARTNERSHIPSThey warned, according to the Voice of America, that Mr Trump’s “racist and xenophobic behaviour” threatened the partnership between the US and African nations. They recommended the Excellences say they are “appalled” by Trump’s apparent remarks; additionally, “dismayed and shocked by the increasingly consistent trend from the Trump administration to denigrate people of African descent and other people of colour”. The Excellencies chose the usual diplomatic platitudes. Plausibly they had in mind US representative Nikki Haley and Trump’s thinking their country’s aid should only go to “America’s friends”. Pragmatically, sometimes it’s worth paying off and heaping platitudes on adversaries. US AID Most African countries need cash from the United States to deal with artificial poverty their leaders create. In all fairness, Mr Trump and his administration have said precious little about Africa. In fact, some of the statements Trump is reported to have publicly made about the continent — laziness, recolonization, conmen, et al — are false. However, if what he told African leaders at a luncheon during last September’s UN General Assembly gathering remains his fundamental thinking about the continent, he’s a problem. RESPONSE The CNN reported him saying, correctly, Africa has “tremendous” potential and the “future is bright”. But, “I have so many friends going to your countries trying to get rich” sounds like something Belgian King Leopold a century at least gone would say: looting. Anyway, Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni earlier expressed his “love” for Trump. He talks to Africans frankly. “S***hole” ain’t no frankness; it’s insulting. Museveni’s buddy, Rwanda President Paul Kagame and current AU chair, tried a pragmatic approach. “When the United States decided to give us Trump as their president, we will deal with that president,” he’s reported saying.” Insults and all! Nope! (cmbitiru@hotmail.com)  