Egyptian top seeds Assar Omar and Dina Meshref hope to live up to their status in the men’s and women’s divisions, respectively, when the ITTF Continental Cup gets underway on Thursday at Nairobi’s Moi International Sports Centre. Omar hopes to atone for his defeat to Aruna Quadri from Nigeria in the 2016 final with victory this time round. Besides Quadri, who is seconded seeded, Omar is likely to meet third seeded Ahmed Saleh, also of Egypt, fourth seed Segun Teriola from Nigeria and fifth seed Algerian Sami Kerouf. “I have trained well and I love Nairobi’s warm weather,” said Omar. SETTLED FOR BRONZE “Being top seeded puts me under pressure to reclaim the title I lost to Quadri. Omar is currently ranked 16th in the world while Quadri is 20th. Saleh is also determined to win this time round after he settled for bronze in the previous Continental Cup, having lost to Omar in the semi-finals. “I am well prepared just coming from World Team Championships in London last week,” said Saleh. Omar, Saleh and Meshref were part of the Egyptian side that lost to Japan and USA at the World Team Championships. The three-day Continental Cup in Nairobi doubles up as the 2019 World Table Tennis Championships qualifier. Meshref is under pressure to retain the women’s title where she face stiff challenge from second seeded Nigerian Olufunke Oshonaike and compatriot Farah Abdel-Aziz, who is seeded third. The 24-year-old Meshref, who is ranked 39th in the world, won the biennial event in 2010 and 2016 besides the Africa Top 16 last year. “I know I am under pressure by virtue of being the top seed but my wish is to retain the title,” said Meshref. “I just want to enjoy myself here and make it to my fifth World Championships.” Players from 30 African countries are taking part in the championships where Kenya Table Tennis Association (KTTA) was running around to have everything in place before Thursday. KTTA President Andrew Mudibo disclosed that they were yet to clear the competition tables in Mombasa. “We hope to clear them and have them delivered by Wednesday,” said Mudibo.   The 2019 World Table Tennis Championships will be held in Budapest, Hungary.