Brunlehner sisters Sylvia and Maria, who are based in Germany, are among five swimmers selected to represent Kenya at Gold Coast Commonwealth Games in Australia from April 4 to 15. Others that got the nod were United States-based Emily Muteti to complete the women’s team while Issa Abdallah Mohammed and Steve Maina Kimani, who are also based in the USA, made the men’s team. Rebecca Kamau (women) and Rosafo Danilo (men) are the reserve swimmers. Abdul Malik was picked as team coach and manager. The selection was presided over by Sports Dispute Tribunal chairman John Ohaga after the three-day Kenya Swimming Federation Age Group Championships at Kasarani. Malik, coach at the 2014 Glasgow Commonwealth Games coaches Sylvia and Abdallah.  The swimmers were selected based on ranking in their best event Fina competitions between September 1, 2016 and now. Those who failed to secure places in the Commonwealth Games team could yet stake a claim in Kenya’s squad for Cana Zone IV Championships planned for March 21 to 23 in Lilongwe, Malawi. While Sylvia is making a return to the “Club” Games after her appearance in 2014 Glasgow, her younger sister Maria will be making her debut. Abdallah and Kimani are also making their second appearances after Glasgow. Sylvia failed to advance from the heats in her 50m butterfly, 50m freestyle and 100m freestyle events just like Abdallah in 50m freestyle, 100m freestyle and 100 m butterfly, and Kimani in 50m freestyle, 100m freestyle and 200m backstroke. Maria tops in the FINA ranking with 758 points followed by Muteti with 750 and Sylvia 730, while Abdalla has 711 followed by Kimani 668. Reserves, Kamau has 725 points while Danilo has 662 points. Swimming was the last discipline to name its squad for Gold Coast. Kenya will be represented in 16 disciplines. Others are athletics, para athletics, badminton, boxing, cycling, bowling, rugby sevens, shooting, squash, table tennis, triathlon, weightlifting, para weightlifting, para swimming and wrestling.  