Not looking forward to Wednesday? Well, you’re not alone. So what’s wrong with St Valentine’s Day? Well, it certainly creates unrealistic expectations and arguments, and has you spending money you don’t have on gifts your partner doesn’t really need. And creates a load of unnecessary anxiety and stress. St Valentine’s Day also reinforces outdated gender roles. Putting pressure on men to be the one taking the initiative, and encouraging women to passively expect expensive gifts. And how you look at it, it’s all just way too tacky, cute and feminine for most red-blooded guys. Who’re expected to plan a once-in-a-lifetime experience, be better looking, better lovers and to wear expensive clothes because “everyone” says that’s what your partner wants. While being single or in an unhappy relationship on Valentine’s Day can make anyone seriously depressed. LITTLE ROMANCE We didn’t always make such a fuss. Marriage used to be a very practical matter, and although many cultures put a lot of emphasis on sex, there was very little romance. Like the ancient Romans celebrated Lupercalia on what’s now St Valentine’s Day. But that was a pretty wild fertility ritual, most of which hasn’t survived into the present day. And a good thing too, because it also involved chopping goats into small pieces and running naked through the streets! There really was a Valentine though! An imprisoned Christian priest in third century Rome, who we’re told fell in love with the jailer’s daughter. And sent her letters signed “From your Valentine.” He was executed on February 14, and as they say, the rest’s history. And the red roses? That also started in Rome. The story goes that some men romancing a reluctant woman became so rowdy that the goddess Diana got annoyed and turned her into a rose. And the men into it’s thorns… RESIST HYPE So this year, why not resist the hype and do something different? Like instead of buying half dead red roses on your way home, why not give her some really nice local jewellery? And why not go to your local place, where they’ll serve real food and have a live band, instead of going downtown to eat overpriced food from a ‘special St Valentine’s Day menu’ – code for less choice, slow service and small portions? Or send the children to grandma’s and take a picnic into the bedroom. Complete with scented candles, romantic music and a big bottle of wine. And girls, to make sure the evening really goes with a bang, try being bad! Put on something skimpy, look him straight in the eye and tell him he has to do whatever you want. Or really wake him up by telling him you’ve been naughty and what’s he going to do about it? It’s a special night, so indulge your wildest fantasies. Get the idea? St Valentine’s Day isn’t really about expensive gifts and restaurants. It’s a wonderful opportunity to let your hair down and create beautiful memories. nyumbayangu@me.com  