The country is staring at the prospect of a severe power crisis as dams dry up due to the ravaging drought. Masinga Dam, one of the main sources of electricity, is likely to be shutdown because of low water levels that cannot run the turbines. Others such as Sondu-Miriu dam have drastically reduced power generation. This is not the first time we are facing such adversity. It has become a predictable occurrence because of reliance on hydro-generated power, which is subject to the vagaries of the weather. GREEN ENERGYFor years now, the government has been investing heavily in alternative power sources, namely solar and wind, which we have in abundance. A lot of research and feasibility studies have illuminated the potential. However, little has been done to go to scale. We are yet to witness large scale generation of power from these sources and subsequent addition to the national grid to boost the supply and ensure self-sufficiency. ECONOMY Power shortages have serious economic implications. The immediate challenge is the increased cost of electricity to consumers and spiral impact on incomes. More devastating is reduced manufacturing and production of goods and services, undermining businesses and job security. Already, the country is trapped in an economic slowdown arising from volatile politics and elections of last year. Agricultural productivity is down and manufacturing is faltering. Any jolt to production is dreadful. VISION 2030 In the past, the government resorted to contracting independent power producers to generate electricity. However, the cost is prohibitive and anti-business. The target of industrialisation by 2030 is only 12 years away. This is premised on sufficient and reliable power supply. But that cannot be achieved in a context where power supply depends on rain water, which is dependent on climate patterns. We can do better. We must tap into alternative power sources. There has been much talk for far too long, but without corresponding action. Time for action is now. The country cannot continue relying on hydro-power for sustenance.  