Narok Governor Samuel Tunai has asked people in neighbouring counties to respect borders as one way of solving inter-community conflicts which have been rampant in the region. While commissioning the Enkorika Rapid Deployment Unit (RDU) camp along the Narok-Migori border, Mr Tunai said his people have been under constant attacks from their neighbours whom he accused of not respecting the set boundaries. The Enkorika camp is meant to boost security between members of the Maasai and Kuria communities who have been fighting over the years for grazing and farming land. RDU OFFICERS More than 50 RDU officers will man the border area ensuring 24 hours patrol and keeping check on cattle rustling among other criminal activities. RDU Commandant Joseph Muthee also graced the occasion that was attended by senior security officers from Narok County. The area has been volatile, with about 20 people having been shot dead in fierce fights where attackers use sophisticated weapons acquired from neighbouring Tanzania. “Locals here have title deeds of their farms but have not been living in them because our neighbours have invaded them for farming and grazing,” said Mr Tunai who hails from the area. “But we have decided to bury the hatchet and embrace peace. We have talked with my Migori counterpart Governor Okoth Obado and decided to spearhead peace efforts,” he said. CROSS-BORDER While indicating that there is no development in any insecure area, Mr Tunai said they will hold cross-border meetings which will root for long-lasting peace solutions between the two neighbouring counties. He said though security is not a devolved function, the two counties will partner in security matters and they will continue complementing the national government to achieve its mandate on Kenyans. “As a governor, I will ensure that four key areas that President Uhuru Kenyatta promised are actualised in our county,” he said. PEACE However, he said that even as they continue to forge for peace, their neighbours should keep off their land and let locals enjoy what is rightfully theirs. “Let each individual remain in their land. We cannot continue to remain silent even as we continue suffering,” said Mr Tunai, a former spy. On his part, the RDU commandant, Mr Muthee, asked for more cooperation from locals saying it is the most effective way to fight crime. “Let us embrace community policing which will boost our fight on crime,” he said. Area Ward Rep Michael Seme asked the county boss to ensure there are social amenities in the region saying they will boost cohesion among the two warring communities. “We need water, schools, roads and hospitals which will help develop this volatile area and unite locals,” he said.  