I  read with dismay a recent newspaper article about how our rivers are drying up. I tweeted about it and got an overwhelming response. I was born in a place where I could see Mt Kenya every morning in all its majesty. But, alas! 50 or so years later, I can confidently say what is there is no longer the snow-capped mountain. One sees more of its jagged peaks rather than the beautifully covered snow peaks. Climate change is real, and that explains why the mountain is bereft of snow and the rivers are drying up. Forests and thick vegetation preserve moisture, which ends up accumulating into streams and rivers. The opposite is also true. When we clear this vegetation and the trees, moisture in the ground dries up. THICK FORESTS The moisture that goes up to precipitate into rain is blown by the winds and gets ‘arrested’ by mountains and thick forests. When we cut trees, we have a double tragedy. Not only do we affect the rivers but also the chances of rain falling as there is nothing to break the winds. The story of how we have cut trees for the past many years is a tragedy of monumental proportions. We have to do something about it to reverse the trend. I suggest that we take advantage of devolution and challenge ourselves to plant a million trees per county in April at the onset of the long rains. We can make this a national issue, led by no less a person than the President, and the governors. We can identify areas to plant the trees in every county and the national government (I hope Environment CS Keriako Tobiko is reading this!) buys the seedlings from the various nurseries, including those sold by Wanjiku by the roadside. If well-managed, the initiative will attract many corporate bodies, the military and NYS, who can provide manpower and/or resources, and all Kenyans who can see this looming tragedy. REPLANTING If we do this well and nurture it by replanting, weeding and regularly replacing the dry ones, there is no doubt that, in five years, the reforestation programme will be one of the key legacies of the national and county governments. More importantly, as it will be a project owned by all Kenyans, it will act as a unifier and we shall all take pride as we see Kenya getting greener. Even at the individual level, we make can make a difference regardless of socio-economic status. Can we raise 47 million seedlings? With all the seedlings that the Kenya Forest Service (KFS), the Green Belt Movement and private nurseries  have, we can double that. Many corporates can ‘own’ the part of the forest that they plant in the counties in terms of looking after them. One taking, say, more than 50 acres can also be allowed to give the mini forest their chosen name. (Perhaps even throw in a tax rebate?). If the President rallies the troops, we can actually do this before the rainy season sets in. POLITICAL PERSUATION Just imagine, Mr President, how the environment will look like in 2022 when you will be handing over — a greener, more prosperous (The Big Four agenda) Kenya. Can we actually name April our tree-planting month and elevate it to a national commitment? We can dedicate it to planting trees and, for just this one month, forget about politics. All zones, regardless of political persuasion, require trees and politicians can commit to talk trees for a month. That sounds Utopian but can be done. Also, we know that the rains will mean different things in different areas. We know exactly what areas will flood. Can we do something about that now? The Nairobi drainage is blocked by accumulated rubbish and we know where it will hurt most. Can we unblock those places? Can the governor assure us that come the rains we shall not see the massive lakes caused by blocked drainage? We know that Budalang’i and Ahero will flood because they always do. Can the local governors take preventive measures? We know that Narok floods and the deluge carries with it homesteads. Can we move those people now or ensure that we manage the flow and ensure the safety of the inhabitants of this area? Can we all say not one life will be lost to flooding this time?  Mr Gitahi is chairman,Tropikal Brands. lwgitahi@gmail.com.  