Donkey owners and cart pushers in Lamu Old Town have decried the increased number of boda boda riders that are threatening to push them out of business. Bicycles, motorcycles and vehicles are not allowed into the town, which is a Unesco heritage site, in a bid to preserve its history and culture. People usually walk, ride on donkeys or use carts to ferry cargo. However, donkeys and cart operators are now facing competition as boda boda riders offer faster and cheaper transportation to tourists and locals in the town. The boda boda business is now booming on the island with a flood of motorcycles charging between Sh50 and Sh100. BUSINESS DOWN Speaking to journalists in Lamu Tuesday, donkey owners and cart operators complained that their businesses have gone down since the entry of the boda bodas seven months ago. At the moment, Lamu Town has more than 100 motorcycles, bicycles and a good number of vehicles despite a ban on such modes of transport. Mr Maarufu Kidege, the donkey owners’ spokesperson, told journalists that their customers now prefer boda bodas for transport since they are fast. “It’s unfortunate that all our customers have run away from us. They prefer motorcycles to donkeys or carts. They say donkeys and carts are too slow and time consuming. It’s unfair because we are the only means of transport that should be allowed here since this is a heritage site. Someone should kick them out,” said Mr Kidege. TOWN STATUS Mr Ahmed Bingwa said the presence of the motorcycles had affected the status of the historical town and it risked being delisted as a Unesco World Heritage Site. He called on the county government to either reinforce the ban on automobiles by kicking the boda bodas out of the town or come up with legislation that will ensure boda bodas only operate in parts of the town. Mr Bingwa said the streets are too narrow and the presence of automobiles could be disastrous. A week ago, Lamu residents lauded the boda boda riders, saying this mode of transport had reduced crime in the town by offering employment to hundreds of idle youths.  