Kenya Wildlife Services (KWS) and National Youth Services (NYS) will field teams for the first time at the Lotto National Cross Country Championships planned for Saturday at Uhuru Gardens. Athletics Kenya senior vice president Paul Mutwii further announced that Kenya Defence Forces, National Police Service and Kenya Prisons Service will also be allowed to field teams in the Under-20 categories for the first time. Mutwii, who is the director in charge of competitions, advised all the aforementioned to submit their teams before the end of the day on Tuesday for consideration. “We are glad to welcome on board KWS and NYS as they join 16 teams for the battle,” said Mutwii, adding that it will be prudent to have the disciplined forces take part in the Under-20 races since they get talent aged between 18 and 20. “Most of these budding athletes are left out from the seniors teams when their respective cross country trials are held hence the need to incorporate them,” explained Mutwii. Mutwii, who was accompanied by AK chief executive officer Susan Kamau, treasurer David Miano and public relations officer Evan Bosire, said they will provide accommodation for all the teams starting Thursday ahead of the Anti-Doping of Agency of Kenya (Adak) seminar the next day at Milele Hotel. Even though the championships will not be an IAAF Permit meet with no foreign participation, Mutwii expects strong representation from their regions. Team Kenya for the Africa Cross Country Championships due March 17 in Chef, Algeria will be shortlisted during the one-day competition that will get underway with the women’s under-20 race at 8.30am followed by the men’s Under-20, senior women’s 10km, senior men’s 10km and universal relays. Mutwii said the team will proceed for residential training on February 20 at Kigari Teachers Training College, Embu before departure on March 14 for the North African country. In the absence of defending champions Leonard Barsaton (men), who is also the World Cross Country silver medallist and Irene Cheptai (Women), World Cross Country champion Geoffrey Kamworor will light up the Championships. Also missing out is the 2015 World Cross Country silver medallist Bedan Karoki, who finished second last year, having won the diadem in 2015. Karoki and Barsaton have lined up for the Ras Al Khaimah Half Marathon on Friday , where Karoki will be defending the men’s title, while Cheptai is expectant. “I am ready to reclaim my title and seal a hat-trick come Saturday,” said Kamworor, who won in 2014 and 2017. Kamworor is preparing for his World Half Marathon title defence on March 24 in Valencia, Spain, where he is gunning for his third consecutive victory. In the absence of Cheptai, the battle is left for the Africa Cross Country champion Alice Aprot, who is also the World Cross Country silver medallist, and World Cross Country bronze medallist Lilian Kasait among others.   The Lotto National Cross Country Championships is planned for Saturday at Uhuru Gardens.