The government has suspended the passport of Nasa strategist David Ndii as it intensified a crackdown on opposition leaders. The Director of Immigration Service Gordon Kihalangwa, in a letter addressed to Dr Ndii, said the suspension was done in line with the Citizen and Immigration Act 2011. Dr Kihalangwa directed the economist to surrender his passport to the immigration offices at Nyayo House within 21 days, failure to which, the document will be declared null and void. LAW “Pursuant to Section 31 of the Kenya Citizenship and Immigration Act 2011, you are hereby notified that passport number C051258 which is in your possession remains suspended forthwith,” read the letter. But Dr Ndii, in a response to the directive, accused the director of using non-existent section of the law to suspend his passport. “Not citing reason as required. Sycophants are born, not made,” he posted on Twitter. The law, gives the government powers to withdraw one’s passport if a holder gives it out for use to someone else, convicted of terrorism, money laundering, drug trafficking or any other international crime. Similar actions, may be issued if an arrest warrant has been imposed on a passport holder, or if the holder has been involved in document forgery, according to the Citizen and Immigration Act. The directive comes barely a week after Nasa leader Raila Odinga took an “oath of office as the people’s president” which the government has termed as an act of treason. Last week, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i, outlawed the Nasa wing of the National Resistance Movement (NRM). The government also recalled security details of a number of opposition leaders and ordered the confiscation of their firearms, a move they contested in court. A number of the opposition legislators including Ruaraka MP Tom Kajwang', Makadara MP George Aladwa and self-declared NRM general Miguna Miguna have been arrested in connection with Mr Odinga’s 'swearing-in'. The three were charged with aiding the “oath taking” ceremony. Both Mr Kajwang' and Mr Aladwa were released after they recorded statements with the police.   Withdrawal of firearm licences and bodyguards violates rights, says lawyer.