Rich aristocrats and monied Kenyans are flocking Nanyuki to buy holiday homes as the town becomes the latest attraction. The landscape of the town which serves as the headquarters of Laikipia County has changed from sprawling ranches to beautiful mansions ensconced in lush green estates. They are holiday homes, the growing estate niche in the  county. Since 2015, more than seven property firms have applied to build dozens of holiday homes. It is no longer “Mwisho wa reli (end of the railway line) as the town was known. Due to the resorts, the price of land in areas surrounding the giant Ol Pejeta conservancy have risen from Sh60,000 to Sh1 million in less than a decade. Laikipia County Trade Executive Nicholas Biwott is elated by the fact that the area is attracting investors to invest on big businesses. “We are very happy with what is happening within our region, the growth has given us a major boost in all sectors. The conducive atmosphere has also played a big role,” Mr Biwott says. He adds that the proposed rehabilitation of a 240-kilometre railway line from Nairobi to Nanyuki will open up other parts of  Nanyuki that were earlier considered non developed in a bigger way. This he says will be vital in the county’s economic growth. Developers have also rushed in to take advantage of the demand. According to Ronald Ndegwa, a developer at Swiss International Resort Mt Kenya, the demand for holiday homes is rising by the day, with the number of those who can afford also increasing. He says that homes around Nanyuki can be traced to the region’s conducive environment. The picturesque landscape opening to a Mt Kenya view on the horizon and Aberdare hills in the background plus favourable weather are all key selling points for the region. Beyond the natural factors, the region has also attracted various committed real estate investors who have developed quality products to meet the local and international market demands. Mr Ndegwa says for example The Swiss International Resort Mt Kenya is conveniently located and accessible both by air and road. With the Nanyuki airstrip only 15 minutes’ drive from the property, it is a perfect location for holiday home owners wishing to have a home away from home, destination weddings, conferences, team building and outdoor events. The road network from Nairobi, Nanyuki or Nyeri among other regions is also fairly good allowing for a refreshing drive. “We have three house designs each providing unique features. Our prices for the units currently start at $30,000 (Sh 3 million),” he states. The project lies on a conserved natural-forest area hosting a variety of wildlife including zebra, impala, Thomson gazelles, dik-dik, and ostrich as well as over 100 bird species. Nature walks and game drives are offered. The developer adds that for the sake of security, they have a very tight security detail and coverage. SELLING POINT The entire property is secured with a manned electric fence and closed circuit television cameras. An Administration Police camp is also within the vicinity providing extra external security and complimenting our internal security team. This development to be managed by Swiss International Hotels & Resorts seeks to deliver and offer 95 Villas (4 bedroom) for sale to individual owners. In areas within Nanyuki, a holiday home’s main selling point is its proximity to Mount Kenya. For example, there are ten artistic homes designed and developed by Leslie Duckworth. Their elegant style is said to offer a mode of living “far removed from the compromise of city life.” Most homes are set against the backdrop of Mount Kenya’s glittering ice-capped peaks, looking across the plains towards the plateaus of Laikipia and Aberdares ridges at the Northern part. Within the home, a game drive is also available where one is able to spot some of the most famous wildlife like zebras, gazelles and different birds species. The lower side conservancies  give an attractive phenomenon for those who have plans to relax and settle outside the urban life. Though Nanyuki appears dry and forlorn, there are many natural resources that a homeowner or holidaymaker would take advantage of. Aberdare National Park is an hour’s drive from the town. A few kilometers from Mt Kenya Holiday Homes is Maiyan which attracts the who is who. Majority of the Maiyan power needs are sourced from green energy courtesy of 150kw solar power installation, solar powered street lighting and  100 per cent of the water heating is also solar powered. Here, water harvesting is done through Eco friendly swirls which channel storm water into the 40 million litre dam. In addition, they have installed a water treatment plant that treats 100 per cent of all the portable water consumed within the development to the World Health Organisation standards. The treated water is then recycled for use in irrigation. Six Duplex Pool Villas are set out on a beautiful 2 to 3 acre village surrounded by lush green valley and manicured gardens. Central parking is provided to avoid unnecessary traffic,. Design of the ground or top floor villa is excellent in the fact that it can be configured and customised allowing guests the choice to stay in a double room or expand to a deluxe, one or two or three-bedroom villa with living room and kitchen. In each configuration, provision is made for private entrance access and rooftop pool lounge.  