Just few days ago, I was moved from Ministry of Information where I served as a Minister for Information, Culture & Tourism to a new post as the Mayor and the Governor of Mogadishu. While I felt honoured and accepted the offer, I knew right in my mind that this is not indeed an easy task ahead. Mogadishu, as many would call it the ‘mother’ of Somalia or the “face of Somalia” as some prefer to call it, is always on the news for good or bad reason. In October last year, we have lost more than 500 people and hundreds injured. No one can easily forget that tragedy. We have cried. We grieved but above all we have not given up to reclaim our lost glory of Mogadishu. RESILIENT Somalis as majority of the world defines, are regarded as one of the most resilient people on earth. Despite the heinous act that made us feel sad, we moved on with our lives. We know right in our mind, as always, there is light at the end of the tunnel. We will never give up. We will stand day and night to ensure we have our lost city back to its glory. Very soon we will witness under my watch, the Mogadishu where you can walk freely and park your car wherever you want, the Mogadishu where you can go out in the evening with your family and enjoy the cool breeze coming from the beach, the Mogadishu where you can sit outside your favourite restaurant sipping your favourite camel tea Also very soon, we will launch a campaign to fight illiteracy among our youths and make my administration to be a service-delivery institution. But wait a minute. This can also not be achieved if we don't have support of the people who reside in the city. COMMUNITY POLICING It is high time we do community policing. A team of volunteers have helped us to do a research of “Neighbourhood Watch” in Somali language we say it “Dariseyn”. This research is comprehensive and we will soon launch Dariseyn initiative in the capital city of Mogadishu. We need to know our neighbours. Should there be a new member in your zone, you need to know each other. This system is not new as it is also being used in some countries like Kenya referred to ‘Nyumba Kumi initiative” (Community policing initiative) and will have a positive impact in improving the security around the city. All this if improved, I believe, Mogadishu will be competing with rest of other cities in Africa such as Kigali which despite the challenges they faced, today it is regarded as one of the cleanest city in Africa with a free Wi-Fi connected in the street. My new administration has put together strategic priorities that will need the support of our people as well as to our international partners. We want our international partners to look at Mogadishu in different lenses, which can shed a light on the plight of the city. A city that has the most population in the country compared to any other Federal Member States. A city with a population of more than 500,000 internally displaced people (IDPs). A city that has more young people who graduate every year compared to the total of the rest of the regions of Somalia. A city that is recovering very fast, and if not addressed urgently, we worry about the consequences. VULNERABLE COMMUNITIES We have focused the issue of our vulnerable communities in IDPs, and through this we are putting together strategies and policies that can lead us to a successful durable solution for IDPs. We need a better coordination, better understanding, and commitment and determination so that our vulnerable communities are looked after in a more appropriate way. But we have a huge challenge on this and that is lack of enough resources and funding to enable us to deliver on this mandate. For instance the current global climate and reduced European Union funding for Amisom troops payments passes a switch on alert on the donor laxity regarding Somalia in spite an outflowing of support after the deadly Al-Shabaab attack in October. For sure, the slow involvement of the international organisation will have an impact and the future of conflict prevention in Mogadishu may suffer. Our international actors and us, Somalis we need to have a sincere plan for this city, we can sit down together and draw the plan together. We put more efforts on research and not this idea of coming up with superficial research about Mogadishu. To fight conflict, it requires not only the symptoms addressed but also local partners are part of the effort to deal with the root causes. Above all, today all we can say is to be thankful to God. We came from far. TAKE RISK Imagine how Mogadishu was in 2008 when I decided to leave my family (wife plus 7 children) behind and returned to Mogadishu. I had a good job and family in UK, but I was convinced that if we Somalis don’t take risk, no one would do it for us. I am very glad that I took that risk and sacrifice for my country. So let us compare it to now. Yes, I do believe we still have more things to improve on but remember we have city services operating online. Schools are open. Children’s soccer academics are open. Trash collections, fire departments, electrical power and other municipal services are up and running. God willing, under my watch, I will ensure Mogadishu stands to its feet once again and becomes an example that other cities facing the same challenges we face do emulate. LIBRARIES In few months to come, we are planning to have all the 17 districts within Banadir Regional Administration have libraries. I believe this will help the youths to find more time in engaging in positive activities than to be idle. We will soon begin the implementation of the comprehensive National Strategy for Preventing & Countering Violent Extremism (P/CVE) for the country. We will begin cultural programing, singing competition (Somali Pop Idol), and engaging young people so that our youth can make valuable contributions to the society in order to stop our youth joining terrorists groups. Last but not the least, I urge everyone of goodwill to join hands with the residents of Mogadishu to reclaim back our beautiful city best known as “Xamar Cadey” The author, Eng. Abdirahman Omar Osman, is the current mayor and Governor of Banadir.  