President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Ugandan counterpart Yoweri Museveni have signalled intent to deepen integration with a new border crossing. The two leaders were in Busia yesterday where they officially opened a Sh1.2 billion One Stop Border Post (OSBP), built with funding from the Canadian and UK governments. But even as they vouched for open borders and deeper integration, they were divergent on how to protect their citizens from “external” forces of integration. The Ugandan leader was categorical about protecting his natural resources, specifically fish in Lake Victoria, where he has sent soldiers to guard contested islands and boundaries. “The fish was getting finished. I had left the work of protecting the fish to the police and the fisheries people but they failed. So I decided to use my bush (guerrilla) tactics. Now I am told the fish numbers are growing again,” he said, referring to his time as a rebel leader of the National Resistance Army. President Museveni defended his controversial decision to send soldiers to Migingo and other contested islands in Lake Victoria amid complaints of harassment from Kenya fishermen. DIPLOMATIC President Uhuru Kenyatta, on his part, was diplomatic, calling on Kenyan fishermen to respect laws, catch only mature fish as authorities discuss a solution. Right from the start, the leaders’ speeches had showed commitment to support integration. President Kenyatta directed the Immigration Department to ensure all East African nationals enjoy the same kind of treatment as Kenyans by end of March, in line with his policy to allow freer movement for Africans. “We will not be able to compete with economic giants such as India and China, if we are divided as countries. Let us work together to open up our region. That is the only way to bring prosperity to our people, instead of putting false borders that only ensure poverty is entrenched in our place.” “Historically, our people have always stayed together. But colonialists introduced the borders, now people have to cross borders and show passports to visit their mothers or brothers. That is unfair. These are the barriers we are eliminating.” INTEGRATION His counterpart was more categorical; telling everyone in the audience that integration is a wake-up call. “In Africa, people have been asleep. But what we are doing here (improving border crossings) shows that we in Africa are waking up,” President Museveni said. A veteran of public lectures on policies, the Ugandan leader then delved into a discourse on why integration was key to East Africans, listing prosperity from expanded trade, regional security, family ties and need to conserve shared resources as the reasons we must sue for open borders. “We are told we must not put asunder what God has put together. By dividing people in Africa, we are actually opposing God. We must be very careful,” he said invoking a passage from the Bible. “If we don’t integrate, we may be colonised by outsiders again.” In Busia, the OSBP, they argued was bringing good business, ensuring families remain in touch with one another and generally ensuring unity in the region. Built with funding channelled through the Trade Mark East Africa (TMEA), a cross-border advisory firm, the new border crossing consolidates clearances for travellers, and transporters, under one roof so that they don’t have to undergo two processes for approval. BORDER CROSSINGS That means travellers from Kenya will only visit the Ugandan side for clearance to continue with the journey. Previously, one needed to queue both on the Kenyan and Ugandan side. TMEA chief executive Frank Matsaert said improved border crossings have seen trade between EAC countries rise significantly. For Kenya and Uganda, it is now worth $1.4 billion (Sh140 billion), he said. “Construction of this border post was based on funding of around $11.7 million from the UK and $1.2 million from the government of Canada. “Our target was to reduce cargo transit times by over 30 per cent. Independent surveys show that that time has improved by 70 per cent.” Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong had accused Ugandan security forces of mistreating Kenyan fishers whenever they are arrested, but Museveni dismissed the claim. Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia said the improvement of regional transport infrastructure remains a key priority for all the states. Additional reporting by Ken Kimanthi   KRA says it recorded the highest revenue collection of Sh1.4 million in a month.