Lang'ata's Hillary Maiyo and Pauline Njeri from Dagoretti will lead Nairobi Region team at the National Cross Country Championships due February 10 at Uhuru Gardens. The Nationals will be used to pick Team Kenya for the Africa Cross Country Championships planned for March 17 this year in Chlef, Algeria. The 24-year-old Maiyo and Njeri braved a windy and sunny morning to win their respective 10km races during the Region's Cross Country Championships at the Ngong Road Posta grounds on Saturday. Maiyo took over the lead from Kamukunji's Sila Kiptoo after 6 kilometres before engaging in a thrilling exchange of leads. A tactical Maiyo would then show Kiptoo a clean pair of heels in the last kilometre, opening a gap of 100m to triumph in 28 minutes and 04.9 seconds to get the Nairobi ticket. MAIYO CLOSED IN Kiptoo, 21, who took to a considerable lead of over 100m before Maiyo closed in, settled second in 28:21.8 as Benson Nakeri (amukunji) came in third in 28:29.1 as they both booked their place in the Nairobi team. "I wasn't worried about Kiptoo's speed and lead early in the race because I knew the adverse weather would take a toll on him," said Maiyo, who has represented Nairobi at the Nationals since 2011 only missing out last year. "This is the first time I am winning here and I hope to take that form to the Nationals for my maiden win," said Maiyo, who said he triumphed after changing his training base from Ngong to Kapsabet towards the end of last year. Kiptoo said failure to have a strong opponent to challenge him early in the race put off the fire in him after dominating the opening 6km. Njeri, who is eying to represent Kenya at the Africa Cross Country Championships for the second time after 2012 in South Africa, went neck-to-neck with Njiru's Lucy Wambui up to the 6km mark. Njeri then stepped on her has pedal to dominate in the last four kilometres, winning the women's 10km in 32:30.3. Wambui came in second place in 32:48.3 followed by Ruth Wangui (Dagoretti) 33:38.2. Isaac Kibet from Njiru and Lang'ata's Janet Chepkoech won men and women's Under-20 8km and 6km races respectively.  