County assemblies resumed sittings on Wednesday with a full in tray. The members of county assemblies resumed work after a long Christmas break. In Isiolo, the assembly seeks to prioritize and approve six bills pending before the House. The announcement was made during the opening of the second session by Speaker Hussein Halakhe Roba who asked the MCAs to get ready for more House transactions. In Nyeri, MCAs resumed with a commitment to work together after months of frosty relations between male MCAs and their nominated female colleagues. INFIGHTINGThe women managed to retain their positions in the Business Committee, an indication that the elected MCAs had resolved their differences with them. Speaker John Kaguchia discouraged locals from online protests, urging them to forward petitions to him. During the reopening, Members of Mandera County Assembly pledged to keep peace and end the infighting that rocked the House. Speaker Mohamed Adan Khalif, speaking during the official opening of the second session, said: “We did not do much in the first session but we have our role and responsibilities properly spelt out in this session for the good of Mandera people.” In November, the MCAs engaged in fist fights over a list of executive nominees, which was rejected. FINANCESAccording to the Speaker, assembly members had agreed to bury the hatchet in order to further develop the region. Meanwhile in Nakuru, the assembly is on the spot over laxity in passing legislation and delivering its oversight roles. Deputy Speaker Samuel Kipkemoi Tonui on Wednesday admitted that the House was under performing, months after new MCAs were sworn in. His worry came after residents raised concerns over lack of bill drafting by the 78 MCAs exactly five months after they were sworn into office. At the same time, the Elgeyo Marakwet assembly is faced with financial challenges in implementing some of its projects due to inadequate funding by the National Treasury. REVENUE PERFORMANCEThe assembly is seeking Sh500 million from the government to construct administration offices and a library to ease congestion in the renovated assembly premises. Speaker Kiplagat Sabulei on Wednesday petitioned the Commission on Revenue Allocation to allocate special funds to facilitate the construction. The county, with a budget of Sh3.8 billion, recorded declined local revenue collection and an increased wage bill in the 2016/2017 financial year, which is likely to affect implementation of key projects. Baringo County experienced excessive domestic and foreign expenditure in the last financial year amounting to Sh195.14 million up from Sh125.87 million in 2015/16. However, Nandi County had improved revenue performance last financial year after it automated collection systems. The total local revenue collection amounted to Sh236.89 million up from Sh244.74 million in the 2015/2016 financial year. The county is however yet to constitute the County Budget and Economic Forum (CBEF) for effective budget implementation process. Reported by Manase Otsialo, Grace Mumbi, Vivian Jebet, Francis Mureithi and Barnabas Bii  