Two Pokot leaders have blamed police for the killing of Pokots living in or visiting Laikipia County for the last five months. Tiaty MP William Kamket and Baringo County Assembly Deputy Speaker Makale Selemoi said at least 14 people have disappeared in mysterious circumstances and their bodies found dumped in the Laikipia plateau. Their bodies usually have bullet wounds, they said. DISAPPEARED The two leaders alleged extra-judicial killings, but police dismissed their claims and said officers were not involved in the disappearances and killings. They said the killings are the work of criminals. The two leaders said that the latest victims were two prominent businessmen – Mr Lokipet Tomele Lotem and Mr Nayolei Tapalal Lotodongor – who, they claim, were arrested by police on Thursday at Rumuruti Market while selling their livestock. “We have been moving from one police station to another looking for the two businessmen but surprisingly, since Thursday, they have not been booked in any police station and we fear for the worst,” said Mr Kamket. CRIMINALS Laikipia Police Commandant Simon Kipkeu and County Commissioner Onesmus Musyoka dismissed the claims. “The information we have gathered so far is that the two may have been abducted by people in civilian clothes masquerading as police officers and took them to Nyahururu. “We did not have any issue with the two businessmen but we are following the matter,” said Mr Kipkeu. But Mr Kamket dismissed the police bosses’ claims. “We are now pleading with the world and Kenya government to listen to our cries because what is happening in Laikipia is completely unacceptable,” said Mr Kamket. PLEA He also said more than 5,000 cows from the community have been killed by police officers. Mr Kamket and Mr Selemoi asked the Independent Policing Oversight Authority (IPOA) to launch investigations into the killings. They also asked human rights agencies to investigate the killings in Laikipia. Mr Kamket asked police in Rumuruti Police Station and the DCI in Laikipia to produce the two businessmen. “They must produce them in court on Monday,” he said.  