Students of Meru University of Science and Technology on Friday afternoon stormed a farmers’ meeting demanding to be addressed by Tigania West MP John Mutunga following the closure of the institution. The university’s main campus in Nchiru was closed indefinitely on Thursday following several days of unrest as students demanded reduction of fees and clean water, among other issues. The macadamia farmers were forced to give the students a chance to air their grievances. Students’ association Chairman Wangila Wabomba and Secretary-General Evans Njoroge accused the university’s management of highhandedness and failure to respond to the issues raised since last year. REDUCE FEES They said despite Vice Chancellor Japhet Magambo promising to reduce fees after protests last year, he had not honoured the pledge. “The crisis at the Meru University dates back to several years. The management has been using intimidation to crackdown on student leaders demanding for their rights. “We are asking for reduction of fees and money charged illegally be accounted for immediately. We need clean water to the hostels and student centre. There is only one tap and students have to fetch water with buckets to flash toilets. The engineering block has cracks that pose a threat to students and lecturers,” Mr Njoroge said. They also want improvement on the student centre, playgrounds and paths that are said to be dusty and covered with overgrown grass. Mr Njoroge said despite the students paying Sh4,000 for medical care, the university’s health centre lacks drugs. POLICE HARASSMENT Mr Wabomba said the students have been on the streets four times this year and accused the administration of using police to harass them. Deputy Vice Chancellor Gitonga Mburugu said they were doing their best to reopen the institution as soon as possible. "The strike is not about fees and buildings but the issue of water is true. We have tried to provide them with clean drinking water. We really don't know what their issues are because they have refused to dialogue with us," he said. MP Mutunga said stakeholders are concerned with the state of the university and constant strikes by students. “I will take up the issues with the highest authority because I know there is a problem with the institution. I have also received a memorandum from the university’s neighbours whose business is affected every time students strike,” the MP said. Police have been keeping vigil at the institution after students vowed not to go home following the closure of the main campus.  