Opposition leader Raila Odinga on Thursday termed the decision to shut three private TV stations an affront to the Constitution “which must be fought”. The sentiments were supported by National Assembly Minority Leader John Mbadi, MPs Jared Okello (Nyando) and Caleb Amisi (Saboti), who said the government should be compelled to compensate NTV, Citizen and KTN for the huge losses they had incurred since Tuesday. “They say those the gods want to kill, they first make them mad. And you can see Jubilee is mad. How else do you explain what has happened to the media?” Mr Odinga asked at Okoa Kenya offices. “That a cabinet secretary can say that the media is being punished, investigations are being done and at that time they will stay off air. As if they own the media! Who has given Dr Matiang’i those powers?” OPPRESSIONThe National Super Alliance leader argued that the attack on the media reminded Kenyans of the Kanu regime days when the government demanded unquestioning loyalty from newspapers and radio and TV stations. “It is either we are living under this Constitution or we are not. We can go our different ways. There is no need for a government that is violating the law,” Mr Odinga said. In Parliament, the opposition lawmakers said the government had no authority or any justifiable reason to close the three stations. Mr Mbadi said the media had the cardinal responsibility of informing, entertaining and educating Kenyan masses. “Some TV stations even cover the training of Al-Shabaab terrorists in their hideouts in Somalia and they have never been closed. What have the three stations done to warrant the shutdown?” he asked. SUBVERSIONInterior and Coordination of National Government Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i on Wednesday said the stations would remain closed “until investigations into their links with the Nasa wing of the National Resistance Movement are concluded”. Mr Okello said freedom of information was guaranteed in the Bill of Rights and termed the closure of the TV stations illegal. “We want this shutdown to be lifted immediately and we are ready to go to court to ensure that the three media houses get compensated for the revenue lost,” the Nyando MP told Parliament. JOURNALISTS UNIONThe shutdown came just a day after Kenya Editors Guild chairman Linus Kaikai issued a statement saying President Uhuru Kenyatta expressly threatened to shutdown and revoke licences of any media house that would broadcast live the planned “swearing-in” of Nasa leaders Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka. Kenya Union of Journalists Secretary-General Erick Oduor also condemned the government crackdown on the media. “This is unacceptable and can only support our analysis that the media are facing the worst threats in the history of this country,” Mr Oduor said.   Both have so far not criticised the move to shut down NTV, KTN News and Citizen TV.