A third year student at the Murang’a University College of Technology has committed suicide after a dispute with his lover. Derrick Kiprop, 22, is said to have disagreed with his lover's decision to end their three-month relationship over irreconcilable differences before taking poison. His action shocked the fellow students who described him as focused and wondered why he committed suicide over a love affair. According to Geoffrey Kibet, a friend of the student, the two lovers were together in the woman's hostel when she requested him to “give her a break” so that she concentrate on taking care of her ailing mother. REFUSED TO BREAK UP "The man refused to give the woman a break but the woman stood her ground and that is when he said he would commit suicide. "The lady called his friend and alerted him to follow the man to avert any danger but by the time his friend arrived at the hostel he did not find him," Mr Kibet said, noting that the student was later seen lying down near the hostel and was taken to a nearby dispensary. He was referred to Murang’a County Referral Hospital where he died while receiving treatment. They said the dead man lived a private life and did not share his problems with his colleagues. Murang’a University College Vice Chancellor Dickson Nyariki said the incident happened Monday night at 9.30pm and efforts to save the life of the student were unsuccessful. POISON "Students and my team tried our best to save the life of the student but it was too late. The poison must have damaged him," the vice chancellor. He described the death as unfortunate and urged students to seek better ways of resolving their disputes rather than committing suicide over love affairs. "One should not take his or her life because of being rejected by their lover. There are many others who would wish to be with you but the best thing for the students is to concentrate on studies first," Prof Nyariki said. He said the institution has lost a brilliant student. Talking to Nation by phone, Prof Nyariki said his office is working closely with the police to get to the bottom of the matter. He added that he will be organising guidance and counselling sessions for the students to avert more deaths that could arise from love disagreements.  