Deported fiery opposition lawyer Miguna Miguna on Sunday stirred up the National Super Alliance pot, accusing strategist David Ndii of threatening a walkout over the ‘swearing-in’ and lawyer Norman Magaya of receiving Sh30 million from Jubilee to wreck the opposition. In a letter he wrote from Toronto, Canada, where the government deported him last week following his role in commissioning Nasa leader Raila Odinga’s ‘oath’ as the People’s President, Dr Miguna claimed that the duo were working to sabotage his resistance movement over which he has declared himself the general. “Ndii opposed the swearing-in and threatened to lead a walkout from Nasa of Kalonzo (Musyoka) et al. Ndii shouted at me and made the threats in person in my house,” Dr Miguna said in the letter, posted on his 300,000-member verified Facebook page. STRATEGYDr Ndii on Sunday owned up to the disagreements in the coalition over the mock swearing-in skipped by co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi, and Moses Wetang’ula, but said that the discussion was only on the how, not whether it should happen. “We disagreed on how, not whether. I opposed other schemes such as swearing-in outside the country, or in a secret ceremony (Ugandan opposition leader Kizza) Besigye style and insisted on a broad consensus and public participation, which is how we did it,” Dr Ndii said in a text message to the Daily Nation. He termed as “a wild allegation” that he had threatened to have Mr Musyoka walk out of Nasa over the ‘oath’. “Which way was better is for history to judge,” he says of his methods for the ‘oath’. JUBILEE MOLE On Mr Magaya, Dr Miguna said that the vocal lawyer was a Jubilee agent in Nasa. “Norman Magaya is actively working for Jubilee. He took Sh30 million to withdraw the petition against (Nairobi governor Mike) Sonko in retaliation for his failed nomination to EALA,” Dr Miguna said, referring to Mr Magaya’s botched bid to be East African Legislative MP. “He (Mr Magaya) had vowed to “revenge against Raila” after that. H.E. Raila Odinga himself told me about it.” Dr Miguna asked the two to speak the truth, which he said shall set them free. “Now that their schemes have flopped, they have conspired to sabotage the NRMKe. (National Resistance Movement Kenya). We shall not permit it!” Dr Miguna said in the missive. LOYALTY But Mr Magaya, without going into the specifics of the allegations, said that he was focused on working for Nasa, and that “I do not need to justify anything”. “Nasa supporters know who I am. They know what I stand for. They know my principles. They have been with me for 8 years. They know it all. I don’t need to justify anything,” Mr Magaya said.   Ombeta says he was informed Miguna was put on a KLM flight for Amsterdam then Canada.