Kenya requires over 3.6 million tonnes of maize each year to feed itself. With over 2 million hectares of Kenya’s land under small and large-scale maize cultivation, majority of Kenyans depend on maize as an income generator. To run your farm business so it makes profit, you must recognise your bottom-line and how best to manage this business. As a farmer, you must measure your profitability and manage many operation part(s) that may make or lose money. In the past and even the present, many farmers rely on the farm saved seeds for planting and this has resulted in decreased production due to characteristics such as poor germination and plant vigour. Research has shown these seeds are seldom uniform with lower vigour as weather before and during harvesting affects seed vigour, damaged seeds during harvest. Subsequent handling, and pests and diseases may affect seeds during the growing period. The total crop yield at harvest time results from what happened to the seed during seedling to harvest. Due to climate change, pests and diseases that were absent or rare have become rampant thereby affecting yields and resulting in losses to the farmers. Notable among the diseases are Maize Lethal Necrosis (MNL), Maize Streak Virus (MSV), Grey Leaf Spot (GLS) and Smut and Fall Army Worms (FAW). For a crop to produce the highest yield under any set of conditions, the first requirement is a uniform standard of healthy seedlings. This includes yield characteristics that are critical in determining crop yield. To achieve this, the seed needs to be of utmost quality. REGISTERED AND ACCREDITED STOCKISTS Kenya Seed is leading the way in ensuring that our seeds are of the highest standards and has developed over 40 maize varieties for various agro-ecological zones. With the climate change realities experienced, the company has endeavoured to research and avail varieties adaptable to nature’s climatic vagaries. The maize varieties released to address these concern include, among others, H528 (Ua Kayongo), H530 and H531 (Ua Kayongo new releases) to address the Striga menace in Western and Nyanza regions. KSDV01 and WE1101 varieties are suitable for arid and semi-arid areas and for water deficient areas and those prone to drought. Maize Lethal Necrosis has affected many farmers resulting in huge losses. To combat this menace, Kenya Seed Company has developed and screened varieties that have shown tolerance to MNL which the regulatory agency has tested and released to farmers. The varieties that address Maize Lethal Necrosis include H12ML1 (H6506) and H13ML2 (H6507), HMZ1202 (H529) As farmers prepare for the coming season, it is advisable to procure your seed from registered and accredited stockist and suppliers. This is to make sure you get the best quality seed from the company. Planting these seeds guarantees you good germination and healthy seedling stand, minimisation of yield loss, good crop quality, prevention of spread of insect and fungal infections, control of seed borne pest and diseases and getting value for the money used to purchase seeds. -MK MWAREY   Samwel Kamau is the seeds sales manager at Elgon Kenya Ltd, a leading agro-input supplier. He spoke to Julius Sigei on his job and the product he is currently selling.