Construction of the Sh367 million East Africa’s largest retail market in Karatina, Nyeri County, has stalled again. Some 1,200 businesspeople, who have been waiting to be allocated stalls for the past eight years said work has not been ongoing since December 2017. The traders’ association vice chairman, Mr Maina Karuri, told Senator Ephraim Maina that the contractor stopped working without notice, throwing them into confusion. “Construction started in 2010 and was to be complete in three years. Since then, we have been trading under the scorching sun in the open air market with poor drainage and shelter,” Mr Karuri told the senator during a crisis meeting on Sunday at the market. The contractor’s representative, High Point Agencies, declined to speak or give a comment on why the construction stalled. RAINS Senator Maina said the delay was an embarrassment. “I am very sorry for the delayed completion... I will take personal commitment to push for the construction to be finished in the shortest time possible before heavy rains start,” the senator said. He further directed the contractor to restore a plaque that was erected in the new market in honour of retired President Mwai Kibaki who launched the project and laid the foundation stone on November 2010. Before the construction stalled, Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua had toured the facility alongside officials from the department of Housing and Development and assured the traders that the market would be complete by March, this year. LAUNCHOne of the officials, Mr Lawrence Mwangi attributed the delay to inadequate funding and change of contractors. The contract was first awarded to Uchumi International Ltd but was terminated and given to the current contractor. Construction of the market, which was a project of the Economic Stimulus Programme, was re-launched in 2016 by then Lands and Housing Cabinet Secretary Jacob Kaimenyi, late Governor Nderitu Gachagua and former Senator Mutahi Kagwe. The project had stalled since 2012 to 2016 when it was revived.  