Four people were seriously injured on Thursday evening after five vehicles collided at Migaa area along the Nakuru-Eldoret highway. According to eye witnesses, the truck was heading towards Nakuru when its driver lost control of the vehicle and hit the pick-up that was headed in the opposite direction. ACCIDENT “I saw the truck that was carrying cattle feeds, ram onto the pick-up,” said Mr Jared Mokaya a resident of Migaa. The accident occurred a few metres from the scene where 36 people perished on New Year's Eve. Rongai OCPD Japheth Kioko said: "Four people including the driver of the truck were injured and taken to Molo Sub-County health facility and the Nakuru Level 5 Hospital where they are receiving treatment." A nurse at the Nakuru Level Five Hospital told the Nation that two people admitted at the facility were responding well to treatment and were out of danger. CAUTION The police boss urged road users to be cautious and observe traffic rules. The accident caused a huge traffic snarl-up along the busy highway. Scores of people have died and many others have sustained injuries in accidents along the nearly 40-kilometre dangerous stretch between Sobea and Makutano. The notorious section stretches from Sobea, Salgaa, Migaa, Sachangwan and Total Junction near Mau Summit shopping centre to Kamara and Makutano. It also includes Jolly Farm and Mkinyai areas. OUTCRY An oil tanker accident in 2009 killed nearly 200 people at Sachangwan area along the highway. In December and the New Year, several accidents were witnessed on the stretch, causing a public outcry. Dark patches of spilled oil, broken glasses, pieces of rubber and mangled remains of motor vehicle parts litter the road section – a grim reminder that the stretch bears a bitter past for many families. The series of accidents have prompted the government to intervene in a bid to end the carnage. The Kenya National Highways Authority is in the process of constructing a dual carriageway in the 40km killer stretch from Sobea to Makutano in a bid to reduce the accidents. The government last December announced that it would spend Sh500 million to construct a dual carriageway.   The killer stretch has claimed the lives of more than 34 people in slightly over a week.