Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has ordered the arrest of politicians inciting their communities to turn against their neighbours in the banditry-prone Kerio Valley. Dr Matiang’i, who addressed a series of peace meetings in Kerio Valley Monday, said stern action will be taken against war mongers. “There will be no compromise when it comes to security issues and we will be ruthless to those people who incite their community to fight another community,” said the CS at Tot-Kolowa border at the border of Elgeyo-Marakwet and Baringo counties. The CS said it was regrettable that 54 years after independence, schools were being closed due to cattle raids and banditry. “We must look for a lasting solution to this perennial problem,” said Dr Matiang’i. He added: “It is very shameful for leaders to incite people or finance them to get guns to kill other communities. No one is above the law whether you are a politician or not.” Intelligence, said the CS, showed inter-community conflicts were being ignited by political leaders. He said schools closed in the North Rift region due to insecurity will be re-opened with enough security. A sub-county commissioner will also be deployed in Tot, Marakwet East, who will coordinate security issues in the area and report regularly on the progress. “I’ m wondering why you are talking about the number of people killed while I am yet to hear about the culprits being arrested,” said Dr Matiang’i who also addressed a peace meeting in Chesegon at the border of West Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet counties. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen said Kerio Valley had a potential in agriculture but residents had been turned into paupers because of rampant banditry and cattle theft. “The armed bandits shoot people including school going children. We are extremely tired of our people being killed by bandits for reasons we cannot explain,” said Mr Murkomen who is also the Senate leader of majority. Elgeyo-Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos said livestock theft had been commercialised and called on the government to investigate some leaders from the region. He said the more than 50 schools closed in his county due to insecurity should be reopened. West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo called for joint meetings among conflicting communities to come up with a long lasting solution to end insecurity. “Insecure areas don’t have roads and the areas also need water and other infrastructure to help spur development,” he said. MPs William Kisang (Marakwet West) and Kangogo Bowen (Marakwet East) urged the government to provide more vehicles to police reservists to ease patrols. “Animals are being driven away by bandits yet you never see security officers pursuing them. It is disappointing because we have more than 15 police posts in Marakwet East alone,” said Mr Kisang.  