Self-proclaimed National Resistant Movement general Miguna Miguna might have spent the weekend at a police station in Lari, Kiambu County, after police refused to free him on Friday despite a court order. CUSTODY Sources indicate that Mr Miguna, who was picked at his Runda home on Friday morning, was taken to Githunguri Police Station then transferred to Uplands Police Station. Police have, however, denied that the lawyer was being held at the station, even though they kept it tightly guarded from Saturday. On Sunday, Mr Miguna's lawyer Edwin Sifuna, Suna East MP Junet Mohamed and Busia Woman Representative Florence Mutua went to Uplands Police Station but the officer in charge insisted that Mr Miguna was not there. Mr Sifuna insisted they had reliable information that the lawyer was detained at the Uplands station. He said he was also informed that Mr Miguna was unwell and had suffered an asthma attack, but they could not confirm this as they did not see Mr Miguna. HIGHLY GUARDED Mr Miguna’s arrest was linked to Nasa leader Raila Odinga’s ‘swearing-in’ on January 30. During a press conference at the Okoa Kenya offices in Nairobi last Thursday, Mr Miguna dared the government to arrest him as he had commissioned Mr Odinga’s ‘oath’. Mr Sifuna on Sunday said he had not seen or spoken to his client since Friday. The station was unusually guarded with uniformed officers patrolling the compounded. Police also barred journalists from accessing the report desk or the police canteen at the station. Mr Junet accused the Jubilee administration of impunity and disregarding court orders. He insisted that police should produce Mr Miguna in court on Monday. Mr Junet said police were yet to clearly state what charges Mr Miguna would face. ILLEGAL GROUP On Friday, the Director of Criminal Investigation George Kinoti said Mr Miguna, who claimed police bombed their way into his house, was arrested for administering an illegal oath and being a member of NRM, a proscribed organisation. “He (Mr Miguna) publicly declared that he is the general of NRM, which is already declared a proscribed group. By the time he declared publicly, there was a gazette notice by the minister. How can we let it go? We are law enforcers,” said Mr Kinoti. “He also said he is going to lead people to burn portraits of a democratically elected president. Then what do you expect from us? "He also confessed he is the one who administered the oath,” the DCI boss added. On Friday, High Court Judge James Wakiaga ordered that Mr Miguna be released on Sh50,000 cash bail. However, police have not released him.   Nasa leaders Miguna Miguna, TJ Kajwang' and George Aladwa were arrested.