ODM leaders have dared the police to arrest Nasa leader Raila Odinga over his Tuesday ‘swearing-in’ as the ‘peoples’ president’. Kisumu Senator Fred Outa on Friday asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to acknowledge that Nasa leader Raila Odinga is the 'people’s president'. He asked the government should stop arresting Nasa operatives but go for Mr Odinga instead. “They should stop going for the minor leaders and face Raila,” he said. Mr Outa was speaking during the burial ceremony of the founder of Voice of Salvation and Healing Church Arch Bishop Silas Owiti in Nyando, Kisumu County. Leaders drawn from the region attended the event, including Kisumu Deputy Governor Mathews Owili, Nominated Senator Rose Nyamunga, MPs Jared Okello (Nyando), Aduma Owuor (Nyakach) and Kisumu Woman Representative Rozah Buyu. SECURITY The leaders criticised the government for withdrawing security officers of some Nasa leaders. They said the government will be held responsible if anything happens to any of the leaders left without security. While addressing mourners, the leaders called for prayers for the country saying that “it is at crossroads”. “The Church and the State must work together because Kenya is at crossroads. The Church must take a stand for the sake of the Country. If that is not done, we may not have a country called Kenya in the next few months,” Dr Owili said. Mr Owuor said Kenya needs prayers. “Men of God should pray for the country because it is getting divided along tribal lines,” he said. Mr Okello said they will not relent in their quest for electoral justice. "We will not be cowed by threats of arbitrary arrests," he said. Ms Buyu lauded Mr Odinga for fulfilling his promise to the people by taking the 'oath'. The leaders who also included former Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma and his wife Olivia eulogised the late Arch Bishop Owiti as a man who stood for truth and justice. They praised him for promoting education in the society. The late cleric passed on two weeks ago after a long illness. His wife, the current Arch Bishop of the Church Winnie Owiti said he suffered stroke in 2011.  