Mr Ferdinand Waititu Baba Yao, the second Kiambu Governor, is currently in the middle of a storm after he said the cosmopolitan region should not elect non-Kikuyus as leaders. Mr Waititu, who is in a political fight with Mr Cyrus Omondi, the Kahawa Wendani MCA, whose rural home is in the Nyanza region, has even suggested that the region should deal with the “inflow” of members of other communities, claiming they were taking over jobs meant for the residents. The MCA broke the ethnic barriers in last year’s elections to win the seat in a region where his community is in the minority — and became the poster child for Jubilee Party’s diversity. Mr Waititu has recently termed the win a “mistake”, claiming the MCA won because “foreigners” nominated him during Jubilee primaries. READ: Waititu: Don't elect outsiders to county posts CHAOS Without providing proof, the combative governor also claimed that Mr Omondi’s supporters voted for opposition presidential candidate Mr Raila Odinga and not Jubilee’s Mr Uhuru Kenyatta. Mr Waititu, who appears unapologetic over his remarks despite the criticism, said this should not be allowed to happen again. The National Cohesion and Integration Commission and the Committee on National Cohesion and Equal Opportunity have described the remarks as reckless and unfortunate, and which can easily lead to chaos in a country grappling with tribalism. Mr Omondi was born and brought up in Kahawa where his father was an army officer based at Kahawa Barracks and after his father’s death, the family settled there and has been part of the community who fondly refer to him as “Cyro”. INCITEMENTDuring the campaigns, Mr Omondi, who was popular because of his community work through a scout’s movement, had the backing of President Kenyatta, who also used his win to preach against tribal politics. Another perceived non-local, Mr Kalpesh Jayantital, popularly known as “Muhindi wa Juja”, also broke ethnic barriers by winning the Juja Ward seat. Although the remarks may have come as a shock to many, it’s not the first time Mr Waititu has been accused of making an ethnic slur. The 56-year-old politician, who has been spotted dressing casually – sometimes with a hat to boot – on official functions as a governor, has been in the dock twice charged with incitement although he was later cleared. EVICTION OF MAASAISThe first time was on September 24, 2012 during his time as Embakasi MP and Water assistant minister. Mr Waititu allegedly said Maasais should be evicted from Kayole after two of them were accused of killing Mr John Kireri, a watchman. READ: Warrant of arrest issued against Waititu for skipping court Last year, as the Kabete MP, together with his Gatundu South counterpart Moses Kuria, they were charged with alluding to the physical injury and death of Opposition leader Raila Odinga during a function at Kasarani. But it was after succeeding Governor William Kabogo that he made a series of remarks seen as divisive. EMPLOYMENTShortly after being elected, Mr Waititu, who was once captured on camera picking a bottle of water from President Kenyatta’s table during a function, said 70 per cent of jobs in the private and public institutions in the county should be exclusively for locals. The county assembly passed a motion to have the governor’s directive obeyed. For someone to qualify to be employed within the 70 per cent bracket, the governor said one must have proof that he or she was born in Kiambu, or at least one of their parents was born there. He said the county will collect data from all jobseekers born in the county to forward to investors in the county. OUTSIDERInterestingly, the governor himself has been grappling with the allegations that he is an “outsider”, considering he had just politically migrated from Nairobi where he was a councillor, MP and later unsuccessfully ran for governorship. Publicly available records indicate that Mr Waititu was born on January 1, 1962 in Kibera, Nairobi, although he claims he has roots in Kabete, Limuru and Githunguri. The governor always courts trouble and never shies away from controversy. “I just roam like that, but I always have the favour of God and I don’t fear human beings,” Mr Waititu said during Kiambu campaigns. To some, Mr Waititu is a happy-go-lucky attitude. To others, he is a trouble-making opportunist. He inherited the Kabete seat on May 2015 after his successor’s death, a seat he used as a launch pad for governorship.  