Garissa Governor Ali Korane has suffered a blow after the University of Nairobi disowned a master's degree that he claims he obtained from the institution in 2011. The university, in a letter to Musyoka Murambi & Associates dated January 30, said the governor is not a graduate from the institution. “This is to state that Mr Korane Ali Bunow is not a graduate of degree of Master's of Business Administration of this university on December 2, 2011. FAKE PAPERS "The copy of the certificate is not genuine and was not issued by this university,” said the university's registrar of academics. Though master's degree is not required to vie for the governor seat, Mr Korane presented certificate to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission last year while contesting for the seat. In an interview with Nation, Mr Korane insisted that he graduated from the university adding that he had written to the institution over the same. “I do not know why they were inquiring about my academic qualifications but my lawyers have written to the institution over the matter,” Mr Korane said. Mr Korane joins a growing list of politicians with fake academic qualifications with some battling their cases in court. Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja is in court on allegations that he forged documents from Kenyatta University in order to contest for the seat. Last year, University of Nairobi deregistered Meru Senator Mithika Linturi as a law student for presenting fake papers to get admission. The university’s Senate sat and resolved to de-register him following investigations that revealed that the degree from a university in India that he used to secure admission at University of Nairobi in 2014 was forged. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission last year flagged 106 leaders as having integrity issues in a list it presented to IEBC in June. University of Nairobi Vice Chancellor Peter Mbithi has since warned that the institution will not hesitate deregister any student who enroll at the institution using forged documents, Prof Mbithi said the university will remain faithful to the values of academic quality and integrity. “We shall not compromise our standards! We shall relentlessly, fearlessly and consistently protect our academic quality,” said Prof Mbithi. He went on: The Senate shall not hesitate to ruthlessly deal with all cases of academic malpractices and intellectual dishonesty! No one shall be spared irrespective of their status in society.”   Garissa governor is said to have graduated from the institution with a Master's of Business Administration degree in 2011.