Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has vowed to sue the national government if it transfers port services from Mombasa to Naivasha. Mr Joho said transferring the port services to Naivasha would cripple the tourism hub. The governor said the requirement that certain cargo be transported through the Standard Gauge Railway was “killing” transporters’ businesses. “When I told you that the port services were being shifted, you made a mockery out of it and you laughed at me. But you are now implementing it; I am even contemplating going to court,” Mr Joho said on Thursday. READ: CS denies sabotage claim in port dispute READ: Naivasha port 'won't hurt Coast economy' - State JOBSMr Joho said the youth in the region are suffering due to lack of jobs and transferring port services will make the situation worse. Speaking during the launch of a maternity theatre at Tudor Sub-County Hospital in Mombasa, Mr Joho said young people, who were working in the clearing and forwarding sector, would lose their jobs. The governor said transporters would also suffer. “How can a government compete with its own people? You are supposed to facilitate so that citizenry can prosper. "But we have a situation where people are being undermined. We won’t stop speaking our minds due to fear of being denied certain favours because life, wealth and leadership are God-given, no one can take them from you,” he said. REFORMSMr Joho said SGR is a noble project but it is being wrongly implemented. “How do you take a Sh400 billion loan to be paid over 10 years? The government should have given a concession through public-private partnership. How will you repay the loans? It will cost us as a country and a region,” he said. He urged Kenyans to defend the “Constitution, constitutionalism and, most importantly, democracy”. “This country is moving forward. We are not reversing. Stop dreaming. "It is not a must that someone takes a different political course to be understood. I will not complain, but I will tell you what needs to be done to move forward. You will not be able to tear me apart any more,” he said. ASSURANCEHe said he had a responsibility to defend devolution. “Hate me as much as you want but allow me to express my opinion. If I think you are wrong, I must be able to tell you you are wrong. You have an opportunity to say you are right and I won’t stop you,” he said. On Sunday, the Parliamentary Committee on Trade, Industry and Cooperatives asked Industrialisation and Enterprise Development Cabinet Secretary Adan Mohammed to explain to Coast residents the impact of the Naivasha inland port on the Mombasa facility. Committee vice-chairman Cornelly Serem asked Mr Mohammed to assure Coast residents that the Naivasha port would not kill the Mombasa facility. “We don’t want speculation or a situation that we are creating business for the people of Naivasha and at the same time destroying the port in Mombasa. "There are concerns that since the residents are not part of the Jubilee government, the port is moved to Naivasha because … let me not conclude,” Mr Serem, who is also the Aldai MP, said.  