Local football fans will be able to watch two Kenyan Premier League matches live on free-to-air television each week. The Kenyan Premier League resumes Saturday afternoon, with all the 18 competing teams in action in various venues countrywide. National broadcaster KBC and KTN will transmit two league matches live each week. However, Kenyan Premier League Limited is yet to arrive at a long-term agreement with the two local television stations over live transmission of matches. On Saturday afternoon, the league match pitting former champions Ulinzi Stars against Zoo Kericho will be broadcast live from Afraha Stadium in Nakuru from 3pm on KTN Home Channel. Kenyan Premier League Limited CEO Jack Oguda on Friday termed the development ‘significant.’ Oguda also said KBC had agreed to air the other league match involving AFC Leopards and Posta Rangers that starts at 4:15pm. The match will also be played at Afraha Stadium. Both matches will be produced by Spanish multi-communication group MediaPro. MediaPro has already shipped equipment into the country, including a state-of-the-art Outside Broadcasting (OB) van which arrived early this week. MediaPro were also responsible for the production of last weekend’s Kenyan Premier League Super Cup game involving local football giants AFC Leopards and Gor Mahia at Afraha Stadium. Sixteen-time league champions Gor beat Leopards 1-0 to win the title. The match production expenses will be shouldered by the Spanish League management, who signed a partnership deal with the Kenya Premier League last year. The deal also involves extensive marketing of the Spanish top-flight league in Kenya. Giant gaming company SportPesa had expressed willingness to fund production and live transmission of matches, but pulled out abruptly at the start of the year in protest over a decision by government to increase the taxation gaming activities in the country. “We’ve settled on MediaPro as our partners for the next three years because we are keen on the quality of the work we want done. If the fans see good pictures from home, they will feel tempted to come to the stadium next time there is a match,” Oguda explained. “The clubs now also understand they have to use this opportunity to seek sponsors and showcase their players.” Ultimately, the league’s management aims to generate funds by also selling the rights of the league matches to pay television channels. It is understood that Azam TV, StarTimes and SuperSport are interested.   Is this the season normal order will be displaced in the Kenyan Premier League?