Religious leaders’ renewed call for dialogue to end the political impasse deserves serious attention. Although the faiths have in themselves lost moral standing because of silence on crucial national issues, on this matter the National Council of Churches is making valuable intervention that reinforces the growing voices seeking amicable resolution to a simmering crisis. Political leaders cannot pretend all is well yet the country is at a crossroads. We spent the whole of last year on confrontational politics that culminated into two presidential elections. RAILA OATH Despite the conclusion of the elections and swearing-in of President Uhuru Kenyatta in November, hostility has continued and now threatens to get out of hand. So it is yet another year of heated politics exacerbated by the recent mock swearing-in of Raila Odinga as “People’s President”. The subsequent violent reactions by the government has opened a new battle front and, by the look of things, there is no end in sight for the recalcitrance. In effect, the country is destined for another long period of skirmishes, whose net sum is to dissipate energies and direct attention away from what matters to the citizens. POLICEOpposition politicians have vowed to up civil disobedience in response to the government’s high-handedness. Conversely, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet has vowed to intensify the crack down on the Opposition leaders, in effect signalling more violent confrontations. A country cannot thrive when it is persistently at war with itself. The National Super Alliance has certainly used brash methods to articulate its grievances — civil disobedience and street protests — but it has legitimate concerns that must be addressed. VIOLENCECritical constitutional provisions are being trashed at will by the administration. The electoral system is unfair and cannot guarantee credible results. Many administrative actions, including distribution of national resources, are being done in a manner that violates the principle of good governance. What is happening is not sustainable; the country cannot continue on that path. President Kenyatta must take the lead and convene an all-inclusive national dialogue to resolve the contentious issues. The country has to talk to itself if it is to escape inevitable descent to anarchy.  