Nation Media Group alongside its partners will hold the eighth edition of the Seeds of Gold Farmers’ Clinic on February 23 - 24 at the Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation (Kalro), Kitale. This is the first of the series of gatherings that bring farmers and agricultural professionals together this year. And, like in previous events, experts from sponsoring organisations such as Elgon Kenya Ltd, Egerton University, Kalro, Simba Corp Ltd, the Kenya Seeds Company, Koppert Biological Systems, Big Dutchman, Seed Co Kenya, National Bank, Trans National Bank and the County Government of Trans Nzoia, among others will be available to address issues affecting farmers. Themed ‘farming the modern way for better yields’, the event will feature discussions and awareness creation on varied topics that touch on agribusiness, dairy cattle management, agriculture financing, fertiliser use, irrigation, farm machinery, greenhouse farming, and pest control among many other topical issues. In the event, farmers will get opportunities to interact with specialists on these matters, and acquire the information they need thus better their farming and agribusiness understanding. And to mark Seeds of Gold four years anniversary, the event will be heralded by a a training on dairy cattle as a profitable business. The four-day training which will be facilitated by Kalro experts will be held between February 19th and 23rd at 9am to 4pm. Topics such as dairy business planning, dairy cattle breeding, reproductive management, calf and heifer rearing, reproductive health and dairy cattle diseases and feeds and feedstuff quality issues will be addressed in the trainings. Other subjects such as seed systems and pasture production, feed formulation and mycotoxins, feeding systems, cow comfort and dairy microclimate will also be addressed in the trainings. On conclusion, certificates will be awarded to those who attended the training sessions by Kalro’s director general, Dr Eliud Kiplimo Kireger and Mr Stephen Gitagama, the acting chief executiveofficer of Nation Media Group.   Find out what farmers learnt at our seventh clinic