The fatal shooting of a Meru University of Science and Technology student leader has, once again, brought to the fore the question of police brutality. This is not the first case of such high-handedness; several have been recorded, hence the reason to spotlight it. Witnesses accounts of lurid details of the shooting demonstrate the callousness of some officers, particularly where force is undesirable. Although the jury is still out, the act was senseless and must be punished. This is the reason why we challenge the Independent Policing Oversight Authority, which has been seized of the matter, to expeditiously investigate the matter and ensure the responsible officer faces the due process of law. We also note that Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed has set up a team to investigate the matter. Perhaps it would be helpful for the teams to work together to get to the bottom of the matter. RIOTSWe are alive, though, from past experience, to the fact that the authorities easily make pledges to investigate such incidents whenever they occur but never make public their findings and no action is ever taken. Student riots are common occurrences in universities. Oftentimes, they tend to be violent as unruly students engage in reckless acts, which is unacceptable and shameful. These are helpless youth who can be easily controlled without use of force and even arrested and charged in court if there is evidence of a crime. It is ironical, though, how the police can apply double-standards. Whereas protesting Meru University students were ruthlessly dealt with by the police, a different scenario was playing out elsewhere. CIVILITYOn Monday, residents of Limuru in Kiambu County, who were protesting over an incident in Kitui County, blocked the Nairobi-Nakuru highway for hours as they stoned and vandalised vehicles and manhandled motorists but were never seized or punished. That is another matter that requires investigation and action. We discourage student riots because they tend to be destructive and counter-productive. But that does not give the police the licence to use brute force to control the students when they hold demonstrations.  