Mahatma Gandhi, a renowned Indian social activist, and writer once said, "Live as if you were to die tomorrow. Learn as if you were to live forever”. In other words he meant, live a life of learning. Although he uttered those words decades ago, these words hold a lot of meaning in this technology-disrupted world. A culture of continuous learning is vital for both businesses and individuals. It is the only way to guarantee current skills or to stay on top of new and emerging technology, and get a market advantage. TALENTTo remain relevant in a fast changing and technology-disrupted lives, we have to keep learning and re-learning, implementing the best of what we learn, triangulating our ideas with others, and casting our eyes in the horizon to get whips of what the future portends. One of the areas that everyone must remain current on is on how technology shapes our lives. And this has to happen constantly because technology is fluid and fleeting. For companies, commitment to training is seen by employees as an investment in their worth and a powerful incentive to stay at the company. Investing in your employees’ education can help retain talent and intellectual property at a time when there’s stiff competition for the best of both. RESEARCHBecause technology and its application is so diverse, you may ask, where is the starting point? There is no straight answer to that question. You would have to keep your ears alert and your eyes peeled to discern the direction the tech wind is blowing. For example, when you learn of a new communication tool that companies and individuals in your industry use, dig deeper to find out more about it. Use online tools such as Google Search and YouTube to get a rough idea of what app is all about. Or, ask a knowledgeable person to break it down for you. Further, find out why it is important in your business or career, what advantage does it have over the other tools? ADDED ADVANTAGE How many people are using it? What are pundits are saying about it? You might be surprised that the next time you have a job interview, that extra piece of information may give you a leg up. Social media is an indispensable personal and corporate tool for communication, business, research and more. It’s not enough to know that Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp and Instagram bring people together. It helps to know how it can be harnessed to improve the bottom line in a company by solving some of the lingering business issues. MINING DATAIf you hold a position in a company and your company has online presence, understand how your work can be improved or is being affected by the social media and allied tools. Don’t dart in the dark. Mine data from these applications and use them to support critical decisions in your company. For example, understand how many people have accessed the site or app. How much time they spent on the website or on the application. What kind of device — mobile or otherwise — they used to access the resource, and from what part of the world or country they access from. COACHHard tech skills alone will not hack it. Companies will need to upgrade their bench of soft skills too. These skills include communication, negotiation, mentorship, coaching, and leadership and organisation. We need to borrow a leaf from the sporting arena. Competitive athletes engage coaches to help them stay in shape mentally and physically. Parents engage teachers to coach their kids on subjects that they don’t do well in class. Likewise, to keep our careers humming in this age of accelerated change, we need to find credible career coaches, join professional associations and read books that that will keep our skills evergreen. The writer is an informatics specialist. samwambugu@gmail.com @samwambugu2  