The Senate and the National Assembly resume sittings on Tuesday after a two-month break. Top on the National Assembly’s agenda will be the tabling and debate of a report by the Committee on Appointments that vetted President Uhuru Kenyatta’s nine nominees to the cabinet. The committee, chaired by National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, retreated to Naivasha on Saturday to write the report and make recommendations. Those vetted were Mr John Munyes (Petroleum and Mining), Dr Monica Juma (Foreign Affairs), Ms Farida Karoney (Lands and Housing), Mr Peter Munya (East African Community and the Northern Corridor Development) and Prof Margaret Kobia (Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs). Others that faced the panel were Mr Keriako Tobiko (Environment and Forestry), Mr Simon Chelugui (Water and Sanitation), Mr Ukur Yatani (Labour and Social Services) and Mr Rashid Achesa (Sports and Heritage). NASA ABSENTEEISMNational Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale on Sunday said the committee will present its report on Tuesday while debate will be the following day. He downplayed threats by National Super Alliance MPs to skip the debate. “We vetted the nominees without them, we will present the report without them, debate the report without them and pass or reject the nominees without them. It is their choice to be away,” Mr Duale told the Nation. “The Standing Order only requires 50 MPs to be present for the business of the House to proceed. We are busy with very important bills and we will get down to work on Tuesday,” he added. HOUSE BUSINESSHe however remained tight lipped on the details of the report. “I cannot discuss that with you. Let us wait for Tuesday when it will be tabled in Parliament,” Mr Duale said. National Assembly Minority Leader John Mbadi had said Nasa would not participate in the debate “as we do not recognise Mr Uhuru Kenyatta’s election victory”. “It will not make sense to participate in the discussion when we did not participate in the vetting,” Mr Mbadi said. He said Nasa leaders would meet this week to give direction on how to approach parliamentary sessions.   Questions linger over vetting of Cabinet Secretary nominees.