A recent article in the New York Times by Karen Weintraub points out that elephants are afraid of bees. Let that sink in for a second. The largest animal on land is so terrified of a tiny insect that it will flap its ears, stir up dust and make noises when it hears the buzz of a bee. Of course, a bee’s sting can’t penetrate the thick hide of an elephant. However, experience has shown that when bees swarm, hundreds might sting an elephant in its most sensitive areas, the trunk, mouth and eyes, and that will hurt. TRUNKS Elephants use the trunk for sniffing out and securing food, avoiding predators, and locating their partners and offspring. It is unsurprising that an elephant would jealously guard this sensitive organ. This discovery has allowed conservationists to set up beehive fences to safeguard these regal animals that represent dignity, good fortune, intelligence, longevity, power, strength, success and wisdom in proverbial symbolism. Conservationists are able to help prevent conflicts that put the behemoths at risk. But some elephants outsmart bees and quickly learn how to overcome the safeguard method when the reward is perceived to be worth the risk. NEGATIVE CONDITIONING But that is short-lived and researchers say they soon react positively with the “negative conditioning” of a few stings. Elephants not deterred by this threat are often endangered by farmers trying to save their crops. You put all these things together and you have a system that’s good at protecting the ecosystem. While processing this phenomenon, one conjures up comparative appraisal within a political, public, and private context. One can also think of the metaphor of the “elephant in the room.” The issue we see, the discomfort we feel, but over time become used to living with. POLARISATION It would appear there is a global menagerie when it comes to the glaring issue that everyone can see, but choose not to acknowledge or address. Whether it’s the elephant in the room, gorilla in the corner, or stinky fish. They all represent “the emperor has no clothes on” such issues. They are metaphors that describe the controversial issues getting in the way of our success. As the polarisation of our society continues, we cannot dismiss the elephants. LEARN FROM HISTORY There are ample lessons that could be learned from history so that it does not repeat itself. While our default is to think that if the big issues are sorted out, everything else will be fine, what we really need to look out for in order to master this tipping point are the “bees”, the soft issues. These seemingly little and annoying things can become quite large. The inadequacies manifesting in our leaders and institutions are symptoms of issues swarming around us such as negative ethnicity, corruption, abuse or disrespect of rights, bad politics. These things that we ignore because to call them out would trigger conflict, shame or simply fear are bad for society. To tackle them we need to accept that they grow in our comfort zone, and are in our cultural biases and politics. LISTEN We must be willing to listen to people with whom we vehemently disagree, and must be willing to dialogue. Drawing from an older discovery nothing in the animal kingdom works in isolation. We must be willing to co-exist. If we can’t work together, we cannot solve problems such as food security, poverty, ethnicity, and unemployment. Finding lasting solutions to shared problems starts with dialogue. COMPROMISE As Gutmann and Thompson aptly describe in their book, The Spirit of Compromise, governing in a democracy demands compromise. It is necessary to govern for the benefit of all citizens. Many great leaders have used this weapon in a broad arsenal of remedies to choose from and to find common areas of compromise and purpose. Without being intimidated by the threats of a few detractors, a swarm of buzzing bees may just be the warning needed to re-evaluate decisions, change direction and mitigate against any potential pitfalls.  Mr Aludo is a strategy adviser Twitter: jeffaludo  