Valentine’s Day is finally here. Love is so thick in the air one can almost touch it. Scents of roses and sweet perfume are already filling the streets. Flower vendors are extra chatty probably because they are bound to make a kill in sales today. The more aggressive entrepreneurs have cute, fluffy teddy-bears and wrapped chocolate to go with that bouquet of a dozen red roses. It’s impossible to miss the dreamy- eyed faces of people going through the motions of the day like robots as their minds wander to the exciting evening dates that await them. As the bus I've boarded makes its way into town, I continue watching these happy people from my window. The fleeting smile playing on some of their lips makes me very curious. Who are these people and why do they look so smitten? Where will they be dining tonight? What romantic gifts will they be unwrapping tonight? I wonder to myself. We get stuck in traffic for several minutes and the driver decided to turn off the engine. It seems we will be here for a while. My rueful train of thought is cut short by a vendor selling a bouquet of plastic roses. “Celebrate love, buy this fine girl some roses,” the vendor says charmingly addressing the gentleman seated next to me. He is given a stony look that sends him scuttling away from the window. I feel so amused and turn to the gentleman ready for a hearty laugh. One look at his grim face changes my mind as I quickly resume my peering through the window. He is clearly not a fan of Valentine’s Day. As I look at the endless sea of people going about their business, I begin to catch the love bug. I knew Valentine’s Day would come for sure. I was also aware that I had nothing special planned for the day. I wasn’t even going to afford a fancy meal and healthy chocolates for my mother this year; she will have to believe it when I tell her that I love her very much tonight. I could grab some take-out and a snack for way on my way home but isn’t the holiday about love? She has been on a path to clean eating and derailing her like that would be plain wickedness. Love is not wicked. I have been cracking my head all morning on a treat for my mother who has been my Valentine for the last 25 years. When I bumped into this recipe from one of my clean-eating Facebook group meal plans, I realised that once again, we are going to have a terrific Valentine’s Day . It’s called Flourless Chocolate Cake with Avocado frosting. Flourless chocolate cake: Ingredients; 1.  1 egg 2.  2tbsp unsweetened coco powder 3.  2 tbsp sweetener (stevia, xytol or any natural low-carb sweetener) 4.  1 tbsp fresh heavy cream 5.  ½ tsp Vanilla extract 6.  ¼ tsp baking powder Method: Beat the egg in a bowl and set aside. In another bowl, mix coco powder and sweetener. Add cream, vanilla and the egg. Mix well Add baking powder and mix thoroughly. Grease a microwave friendly bowl and microwave the mixture for 90 seconds till top is firm or Bake in the oven for 10 minutes at 180 degrees. Avocado frosting: ingredients 1.  1 avocado, pitted and mashed 2.  2 tbsp coco powder 3.  2tbsp coconut oil 4.  2tbs powdered sweetener 5.  ¼ tsp Vanilla extract 6.  ¼ teaspoon cinnamon powder Method: Put all the ingredients in a blender and blend till smooth. Once the cake is cool, decorate with frosting and enjoy.  This recipe got me very excited about the evening and I can’t wait to see her look when she bites into my offering of love. Happy Valentine’s Day to you all!      I was walking in town earlier this week and almost bumped into a street post as I gawked at the breathtakingly gorgeous lace and satin attires donned by mannequins on window displays in town.