Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) detectives Friday raided the home of Manyatta B Ward Representative Pamela Odhiambo in search of forged academic documents. The EACC officials who were accompanied by Administration Police officers from Kisumu forced their way into the compound of the Kisumu County Assembly member in Manyatta estate after they found the main gate locked during the 3am raid. WARRANT According to EACC Deputy Regional officer Dunstan Aura, the officers resorted to a forceful search after the accused refused to present the said certificates to the anti-corruption commission offices in Kisumu. “We sought a court warrant to search the residence after the local leader failed to comply with an order which required her to present her original papers to the EACC offices for further investigations,” said Mr Aura. The warrant which was authorised by a Kisumu court permitted the officers to seize all documents or information including electronic devices that can facilitate conclusion of the ongoing investigation and to take the same to court. According to EACC lead investigator Erick Kirui, Mrs Odhiambo presented to the commission a copy of completion letter from the KCA University that was made without the authority of the said university. In his affidavit, Mr Kirui said EACC wants to conduct investigations into complaints of alleged corruption and or economic crime received by the commission, and making recommendations to the Director of Public Prosecutions pursuant to investigations. 'WITCH-HUNT' After the search, the EACC detectives took possession of the purported original KCA University, a photocopy of self-declaration form and original copy of completion letter. The MCA was however not available during the search as she was said to be out of the county on an official duty. Her husband, George Odhiambo, however termed the incident as a political witch-hunt being pushed by former MCA Nereah Okombo who raised the complaint. “The raid was conducted in the presence of the area assistant chief who is also the former MCAs husband,” said Mr Odhiambo. Mrs Okombo however dismissed the claims and called on her rival to handle the matter with the right investigating agencies. “I do not have the powers to direct EACC on how and when to conduct their business. It is simplistic for them to drag me into the matter due to the presence of my husband who was simply doing his work as the area administrator,” she said.  