At least one affidavit and six letters from members of the public had been filed to the Committee on Appointment of the National Assembly, which is required to vet nine individuals proposed for appointment as Cabinet Secretaries, by Monday evening. The committee is chaired by House Speaker Justin Muturi and has until tomorrow 5pm to receive memoranda from the public on the suitability of the individuals nominated by President Uhuru Kenyatta before vetting starts. According to Michael Sialai, the Clerk of the National Assembly, the information available before the committee raise issues on some of the cabinet secretary nominees. “The Committee will meet before Thursday to deliberate on the issues. The public is advised that any matter they want to raise on the nominees should be in form of affidavits,” Mr Sialai said adding that he will refer the information to the committee for more directions. Though the issues raised were not revealed by the Clerk, Nation has learnt that the letters raise issues on the integrity, level of education and past record of the nominees, which if proved, may see those adversely mentioned, not recommended for appointment. The others have also been cited for their failure to honour payment obligations to their workers, creditors and suppliers among others. “There are those who claim that they have certain qualifications but when we crosscheck with the institutions they claim to have gone to, it is not marching. Those are some of the issues they are required to respond to by way of affidavits,” a source at the committee’s secretariat said. According to the Public Appointments (Parliamentary Approval) Act, nominees affected by way of memoranda from the public are required to be notified in good time so that they can prepare before they appear before the committee. They are required to file their responses to the committee through affidavits, which must be submitted before their appearance. The Clerk disclosed that he has also received additional two letters from the Kenya Human Rights Commission chairman Mr George Kegoro and Mr Ekuru Aukot, who have requested to appear before the committee to discuss general issues on the vetting process. Mr Aukot contested in the August 8, 2017 presidential elections, which was nullified by the Supreme Court and the fresh presidential election of October 26 the same year. In all instances, Mr Aukot performed dismally, managing tens of thousands of votes.   Veteran journalist Farida Karoney named CS Ministry of Lands.