The withdrawal of bodyguards and guns from opposition politicians is malicious and vindictive. It is a mark of ruthlessness and worryingly, the misguided thinking that the government determines entitlements and privileges, yet there are procedures and policies for this. The MPs and governors are entitled to state protection by virtue of their offices. Entitlements and privileges are never subjective or whimsical. They are based on some foundations and apply equally to all those within the target group, irrespective of their affiliations. SECURITY When a principle has been established that MPs and governors get guards, it is for all of them; not a select few. What has happened since the controversial “swearing-in” of Nasa leader Raila Odinga on Tuesday is discomfiting. The government has set out to crack down and humiliate opposition politicians who participated in the event. It includes withdrawing their bodyguards, which in the view of the government, is a favour dished out at will. So, to bully the opposition to surrender, the guards are impulsively taken away. This is perverted thinking. It is discriminatory, arrogant and defeatist. FIREARMSIn the same breath, possession of a gun is guided by the Firearms Act, which spells out the conditions for issuance, custody and withdrawal. Gun holders are subjected to stringent rules because of the attendant risks. But all that does not mean that the guns should be given or withdrawn at the pleasure of someone in authority. Everything must be guided by the procedures and fair play. When we create a system where decisions are subjective, then we create an unfair society. FAIRNESSThis is the basis of our argument; that the government is committing a mistake by appropriating rights, entitlements and privileges and making it look like it is the one to decide what to give or not, and to whom. The rule of law is about equity and fair play. Political persuasion cannot be a basis for determining who gets or forfeits what. If the government wants to withdraw bodyguards from politicians, then that must be done across the board, not selectively and which for now, applies only to the opposition.  