Justifiably, 2017 was a year that can be summarised in three words: Uncertain, changing and challenging. Looking at the East African region, economic conditions deteriorated largely in Kenya and South Sudan, with the other countries closing the year with a not so favourable story to tell. A prolonged electioneering period in Kenya slowed down expansion across the region. We however see some recovery coming through during the first half of 2018. The full effect of the law capping interest rates marked by a slow business environment as the elections hit the economy. ELECTIONS The rate cap subdued private investment, owing to the drop in lending rates. As such, overall credit growth to the private sector reached its lowest levels in mid-2017. In South Sudan, hyperinflation impacted on business, but we remain optimistic that the political situation will improve, creating a conducive operating environment. Rwanda elections passed uneventfully, which was a positive indicator for business and investment. RESURGEMost business executives would report that conditions for the financial services industry have worsened over the past 12 months. But the shockwaves have not solely been external. Financial institutions have also been looking inward, implementing changes to their core operations — from shortening transaction times to integrating sustainable innovation into their product offerings — re-evaluating the entire system itself. This year will unleash its own challenges. The general outlook for 2018 is favourable with an expected improvement in economic conditions and a pickup in investments across the region. CREDIT RISKTwo things will define the financial services sector this year — a new regulatory environment and increased investments in technology (Fintech) space. The global financial system has got into a new regime — the International Financial Reporting Standards 9 (IFRS9) — which took effect on January 1. Under the IFRS 9, the most fundamental change is recognition of credit risk losses. Previously, financial institutions would recognise a risk at the point of default. They will be expected to recognise this at the beginning and during the loan’s life cycle and make the necessary provisions. We do not anticipate a shrinkage in credit or any major shock to our business as we have over the years been preparing for this. The KCB is adequately capitalised to fit in the new guidelines. INTEREST RATES The future lies in leveraging technology to drive efficiencies in operations to serve our customers better. Since the introduction of the caps, growth in credit to the government has averaged 15 per cent compared to the 2.3 per cent to the private sector. We are glad that the regulator has indicated a willingness to reassess the interest cap. Given the technological and market changes roiling the industry, the coming two to three years may well bring even greater disruption to banking. STABLE RATING To play the long-term game, each organisation needs to determine which developments to prepare for and how, based on its particular assets, business model and operating model. The KCB’s growth prospects are strong. Rating agency Standard & Poor’s (S&P) last month affirmed KCB Group’s B+ stable rating. Our business fundamentals remain strong. We are focused on devising new forms of enhancing long-term corporate projects, or structuring that benefits SMEs. Success stories are most likely to come from those already planning for the years ahead. And this is a sign that this year holds vast opportunities to break new ground in business, especially in the financial sector. Mr Oigara is the CEO of the KCB Group. Joigara@kcb.co.ke  