Vet Lab Sports Club’s Edwin Mudanyi dropped three shots on Sunday’s closing round but still managed to claim the 2018 Mt Kenya Golf Championship title by two shots at the par 72 Nyeri Golf Club course. Mudanyi, who is the current Kenya Amateur Golf Championship(KAGC) series champion, started the event with five over par 77 on Saturday after picking up seven bogeys with only two birdies. However, during Sunday’s second round, Mudanyi birdied the sixth and eighth in the first nine and 14th and 15th, dropping shots at the second, fourth and 16th for one under par 71 and a total of 148 gross. He beat Railway’s Samuel Njoroge by two shots as Njoroge carded 75 in the first round and second for 150. Njoroge birdied the sixth in the outward nine, but dropped four shots in between, recovering only two at the back nine’s 14th and 15th. In third place was another Railway player George Felix on 151 after rounds of 77 and 74. Limuru’s John Karichu, who led in the first round on level par 72 after four birdies, two single and one double bogey, shot eight over 80 to tie for the fourth place with Anthony Kinuthia of Golf Park and Muthaiga’s Anthony Irungu on 152. At Royal Nairobi Golf Club, home player Harrison Mungai Kariuki was in his best form over the weekend as he produced an excellent 45 points to emerge the overall winner of the “Wanabima Golf Day title’’. The handicap 10 Kariuki, who will now join the elite single figure handicap golfers, birdied the second, fifth, seventh and eight in the first nine and at the 14th, though he made six single bogeys and a double at the ninth to win by four points from men winner T. Kuria of Limuru. Finishing second in the men’s section was D.B.Joe on 40 points after beating former soccer striker Joe Masiga on countback. The ladies first prize went to Carol Okara on 38 one better than Nancy Ikinu while Elizabeth Njau was third on 35. The seniors title went to Henry Kanyua on 36. Leading the sponsors was Edna Thiongo on 38, one better than Joseph Kamiri while Ken Muchege was the best guest with 41 points. Also playing with the amateurs were some of the local pros, who were led by Erick Ooko on one over par 73. The event was sponsored by Sanla Insurance Company, AAR Health Care, Continental Re, Re-Insurance Solutions Ltd and Kenya Re. At Vet Lab Sports Club, Evans Obare carded 43 points to win the second leg of the Johnnie Walker Gold Reserve series. He won four points from George Mburu, who beat Michael Kimani and Joseph Kisolo on countback with 39 points. Taking the ladies title was Hellen Manyara on 36, followed by Rahab Heho on 34. The guest winner was D. Kanyora on 45 points, winning well ahead of J. Gitau on 38. The nines went to Ayaz Manji on 21 and Godwin Karuga on 22 and Kenya Breweries managing director Jane Karuku was the staff winner with 33 points. The following is a summarised weekend golf round-up; At Sigona, Mug of Mugs sponsored by Tononoka Group; Overall winner Jay Shah 41pts cb Shivani Patel 41, Nishith Patel 39, Peter Waweru 38. lady winner Vinashri Mann 34- guest A Yamani 35pts;  