Chief Justice David Maraga has made a timely intervention by putting the Executive on notice over court orders. They are not optional; they are mandatory and have to be respected. It is important to reinforce this position because a bad precedent is being set where top government officials disobey court orders at will, as if to show they are above the law. It is a mark of indiscipline for State officers to violate court directives. RULE OF LAW Such actions have serious ramifications on law enforcement and stability. Citizens who see court orders trashed quickly learn that disobedience is an acceptable practice; that lawlessness is not bad, after all, as perpetrators are never penalised. The statement comes in the wake of alarming happenings, where several public officials, among them Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet and Director of Criminal Investigation George Kinoti blatantly defied court orders, including the one that directed the release of opposition activist Miguna Miguna. Clearly, such officers stand condemned. GOVERNANCE Contempt for court orders has created animosity between the Judiciary and the Executive, which is not healthy for good governance. Although the three arms of government - Judiciary, Executive and Legislature – are independent, they work collaboratively. But this is not possible in an atmosphere of mistrust and where one agency feels undermined and belittled by the other. It is instructive that the National Super Alliance (Nasa) has publicly declared that its members will start civil disobedience if government officials continue to flout the rules. NASA In itself, that threat is irresponsible. We do not want any form of confrontation. However, the point is that when the citizens begin to distrust the law because of Executive excesses, it opens the floodgates for chaos. Respect for the law is not negotiable and the public officers violating the court directives must be punished. Chief Justice Maraga must put his foot down and rein in those rogue public officials. We cannot countenance a culture where some people disobey orders without sanctions, as that only feeds impunity.  