A section of politicians from Coast region have criticised President Uhuru Kenyatta for leaving the Mijikenda community out of his Cabinet. For the first time since independence, no member of the Mijikenda — Coast’s largest community — has been named to the Cabinet. MPs Owen Baya (Kilifi North), Paul Katana (Kaloleni), Teddy Mwambire (Ganze) Michael Kingi (Magarini) and former Bahari MP John Mumba said it was wrong for the President  to overlook the community. Mr Baya said the move was a clear indication that the President cares little about the community where some of his close allies like former MPs Gideon Mung’aro and Dan Kazungu hail from. “This is also against the Constitution, which states that ministers should be appointed from every region. He has betrayed the Mijikenda community,” said Mr Baya. SUPPORT NASA Mr Katana said the writing is on the wall for the community, and thus they should continue supporting Nasa. “This is a wake-up call that as Mijikenda, our destiny is not in Jubilee, but rather in the opposition,” he said. Mr Kingi said the new Cabinet lacks a national outlook. “If we talk about a government with a national outlook, then our Mijikenda people would have been included,” said Mr Kingi. HISTORY Jubilee Party chairman in Kilifi County John Mumba said history had been made after the Mijikenda missed out on a ministerial position for the first time since independence. “I was also shocked because the community has been in the government all along. I don’t know what happened,” he said. He said although the region voted for opposition, there were Jubilee people who ought to have been appointed to the Cabinet. “I hope the President will rethink this and appoint a Mijikenda minister,” he added. However, former Likoni MP Masoud Mwahima said the government had its own plans on the appointment, and thus the Coast people should appreciate the slots given. “We cannot criticise the government all times. We have to be grateful that at least we have some people from our region who have been given other slots,” said Mr Mwahima. APPOINT WOMEN Former Mombasa woman rep contender Amina Abdalla, who lost in the August 8 elections on a Jubilee ticket, urged the President to appoint more women. “I got 87,000 votes and we worked very hard so that Jubilee could win. We also deserve to be rewarded,” she said. Since independence, various members of the community have served as ministers. The late Robert Matano worked in Mzee Jomo Kenyatta’s government as a minister. Mathias Keah, Katana Ngala, and Gonzi Rai and Kassim Mwamzandi are among Mijikenda politicians who worked as ministers and assistant ministers in retired President Daniel Moi’s regime. The late Karisa Maitha served as a minister in the Mwai Kibaki administration while Anania Mwaboza served as an assistant minister. Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi served as a minister in the coalition government. Mr Kazungu, the then Malindi MP and politician Kazungu Kambi served in President Kenyatta’s Cabinet.  