Kenya may have failed to qualify for all the 20 World Cup tournaments ever organised but that does not mean it cannot host the coveted trophy within its borders. The six-kilogramme Fédération Internationale de Football Association (Fifa) World Cup trophy, made of solid gold, will be brought into the country on Monday by beverage manufacturer Coca-Cola. This will be the third time the 36 centimetre-tall treasure worth an estimated Sh1 billion will be coming to Nairobi, after it made stops in the city in 2010 and 2013 ahead of the World Cup tournaments in South Africa and Brazil respectively. It will land in Nairobi from Addis Ababa then it will leave Kenya on Tuesday heading to Maputo, Mozambique. By June, when the World Cup tournament will be starting in Russia, the trophy will have been taken to 51 countries and 91 cities across the globe. Coca-Cola is giving free tickets to those who wish to view the trophy at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC) on Tuesday. ROUTE CITIES “Free tickets to view the trophy will be made available at the pavilion sites in the route cities and distributed through the Coca-Cola local partners,” Coca-Cola’s brand manager Rodney Nzioka said in a statement to the Nation. Only President Uhuru Kenyatta will be allowed to touch it on Monday. “As one of the most recognised sports symbols in the world, and a priceless icon, the trophy can only be touched and held by a very selected group of people that include former winners of the Fifa World Cup and Heads of State,” said Mr Nzioka. “Fans will be able to see the trophy up close and, in many cases, even have their photo taken with it on Tuesday. But they will not be able to touch it,” he added. The attendants will also be treated to a show. “Various activities for visitors will be held, including performance of the mascot, interactive entertainment and an innovative and unforgettable trophy experience. We believe fans will long remember this unique experience with the trophy,” Mr Nzioka stated. Kenyan artistes have also been given a chance to do renditions of this year’s World Cup Coca-Cola anthem — the song Colours by American popstar Jason Derulo. EXCITEMENT A statement from Coca-Cola said the song “celebrates all of the vibrancy and excitement that comes with the arrival of the world’s biggest football tournament.” “Coca-Cola has invited the top local artistes from South Africa, Tanzania, Kenya, Ethiopia, Mozambique and Uganda to create uniquely African versions of the anthem for each country to celebrate people’s passion for football through music,” the statement added. As the song gains traction, the coming of the trophy has already caused a buzz on social media, with the political happenings in the country sparking banter. Because opposition leader Raila Odinga was “sworn in” as the people’s president on January 30, many observers have been wondering whether he will also get a chance to touch the trophy. “Only one president is allowed to touch it. Will it be Uhuru or will it be Baba Raila? 27th will be lit; can’t wait to see it,” posted Elijah on Facebook. “I hope the ‘people’s president’ will this time round be allowed to hold it. I don’t want to see the embarrassment he received when he was Prime Minister,” wrote Mwangi, referring to the 2013 incident where only President Mwai Kibaki was allowed to touch the trophy, despite Mr Odinga insisting that he was an equal partner in the grand coalition government. GLOBAL CUSTOMERS “I’m eagerly awaiting it here in Kenya to see which president will hold it,” Gitimu posted on Facebook. Still on Facebook, Willfreight Express Cargo Services on Friday posted that it had been chosen by Coca-Cola to be in charge of the customs clearance of the trophy. “We pass our regards to all global customers for trusting our services,” they wrote. The post opened a lid on the measures taken to seamlessly transport the trophy between countries. When the trophy first came to Kenya in February 2010, an elaborate security team, with police working alongside G4S, was involved in guarding it. It was stored at Safari Park Hotel and public viewing happened at Nyayo Stadium, Nairobi. The then G4S brand manager told the Nation that Sh4 million was spent guarding the trophy made of 18-karat gold. Coca-Cola was tight-lipped on the security measures put in place for this year’s display of the trophy at KICC.  