The Independent Policing Oversight Authority (Ipoa) has launched investigations into the alleged killing of Meru University Student leader Evans Njoroge. In a statement to the media, the authority’s head of communication and outreach Dennis Oketch said a rapid response unit was sent to Meru on Wednesday morning to probe the fatal shooting. PROBE The student’s association secretary-general was shot dead on Tuesday and leaders have called for thorough investigations into his killing. The Ipoa probe comes as Tigania West Police boss Adamson Furaha and Meru County Commissioner Wilfred Nyagwanga said they were yet to establish the truth about the killing. Ipoa has urged eyewitnesses to provide information on the killing. “Ipoa this morning dispatched its Rapid response Unit to investigate the incident with a view of establishing circumstances of the shooting and if culpability will be established, ensure the officer responsible faces the full force of the law. “Upon conclusion, the authority will make recommendations and forward the investigation file to the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions,” the statement reads. PROTESTS Mr Nyagwanga said the county security team had embarked on thorough investigations on the incident. “Loss of a life cannot be taken lightly. Our team in on the ground to piece together information on what happened,” the county commissioner said. He, however, blamed locals for the sustained protests and barricading of roads, saying students were sent home on February 1. “The students involved in the riots cannot number more than 10 because it [the university] was closed on February 1. Why can’t leaders use peaceful means to sort out problems?” Mr Nyagwanga posed. He said the police officer who allegedly pulled the trigger is yet to be identified. “Due to the confusion surrounding yesterday’s protests, it was not easy to establish the truth. The team is on the ground,” he said. The university students started protesting over high fees in October last year.   Student Association Secretary-General Evans Njoroge was shot dead on Tuesday.