Contrary to my expectation, I had no trouble locating the Maasai Mbili Art Gallery in Kibera. My host, curator Rose Jepkorir who runs the gallery alongside the M2 outfit, had directed me to alight from the matatu at a stage called Bombolulu, and the gallery happened to be located a stone’s throw away. I was a slightly disappointed though, for I had steeled myself to navigate the congested shanties and alleys that make up the intricate mosaic of a neighbourhood that was once considered the largest slum in Africa. The idea of an art gallery located in Kibera had piqued my interest. I am not particularly knowledgeable when it comes to Kenya’s art scene, but all the galleries I had visited before happen to be located in well-heeled neighbourhoods of Karen, Lavington and Runda.  I was certain that Maasai Mbili Arts Centre was going to serve me with a distinct flavour from what I was accustomed to, and it didn’t disappoint. Inside the gallery were works by artists such as Kavochi Anita, Kevin Stero, Otieno Kennedy Rabala, Joakim Kwaru among others. But even more intriguing than the artworks was a conversation I had with the art centre’s residents that exposed the many tribulations that have continued to afflict the local art scene for decades. Jepkorir informs me that the community based artist group was started in 2001 by two artists – Otieno Gomba and Otieno Kota – who initially worked as sign writers in Kibera. “A major aim of ours,” Jepkorir points out, “Has always been to enable artists to have one voice, through which they could create awareness of the various issues concerning the community such as HIV, crime and other social problems.” However, she says, back when the arts centre was operating as an open-air gallery, it used to sell more than it currently does.  She points at a pile of paintings by artist Rabala (popularly known within the art scene as OK Rabala). “You see all those artworks there? If it were 10 or 15 years ago, they would sell in under a month. Nowadays, however, you’ll be lucky to move half of that volume in six months,” she says. “Where exactly did the rains start beating us?” I ask. She pauses for a full minute as though going through a plethora of answers to my question. Then she says: “That’s a question that I just can’t shoot a quick answer at; that would be unfair. If you had a few hours though, I’d like to engage you in that conversation.” It is a conversation that I really want to sink my teeth into. I figure out that if we don’t diagnose the malady that has debilitated our contemporary art scene; I will be forced to spend an even longer time conducting the autopsy and writing an obituary. So, I pull out my phone and cancel a few appointments. “I’ve got all the time in the world,” I tell the curator. At this juncture I notice we have been joined by a resident artist who introduces himself as Mbuthia Maina. “Mr Mbuthia, Ms Jepkorir here just told me that selling a painting in 2017 is a really tough order,” I tell him. He responds that while the observation by Ms Jepkorir is true, a true artist like himself doesn’t paint for profits. “If you keep focusing on the financial gains that your works will accrue, you are likely to get frustrated easily and give up on art,” he adds. “How then do you make a living if you aren’t selling enough of your paintings?” I press on. “We get a little bit more creative,” he says. “I have moved away from only doing paintings. Nowadays, I am called upon to do artwork in restaurants and pubs. I also have my own line of T-shirts on which I paint and sell to the residents of Kibera.” Jepkorir intervenes and adds that for artists to make a meaningful living in the country, there is need to diversify. “Michael Soi, arguably Kenya’s most successful contemporary artist, has made a name for himself by designing a line of handbags which he sells both locally and internationally,” she says. Despite sporadic reports that Kenya’s economy is on an upwards trajectory, Jepkorir is convinced that Kenyans’ purchasing power has declined. “Who would buy art in Kibera when they are struggling to pay for their food and put a roof over their head?” she asks. The country’s education system does not seem to help matters. “In Kenya, arts and crafts is no longer an examinable subject in primary school. Most schools do not even attempt to teach the subject,” bemoans OK Rabala who has since joined the conversation. He adds that failure to tailor our curriculum to the needs of the local arts market is partly the reason why some Kenyan contemporary artists only excel after they relocate to foreign countries. Wangeci Mutu, Naomi Wanjiku Gakunga and Khalai Jimase are among some of the Kenyan artists making waves abroad. He also says artists need to be proactive and stop relying on studios to market for them. “It is the digital age of social media and the tech-savvy artists who have their own personal websites and huge followings on their Instagram accounts tend to generate more interest for their works and can market to people from across the world,” he says. Ms Jepkorir reserves the most damning criticism for  the government, particularly the Sports ministry. Part of the problem, Jepkorir says, is that the arts have been lumped in the same ministry as sports, and nearly all of the funding that the ministry gets is channelled towards sports. “Only the government can save the local art scene from its downward spiral,” she says. “In Western countries, Art is taught from a very early age. Gifted artists are, therefore, identified when they are young and their talent nurtured for many years after that. That’s why Western countries like Germany, France and America continue to dominate the global art scene.” Even in secondary schools where art is taught as an examinable subject, it is optional and is, therefore, only offered in a handful of schools. Even fewer students study the discipline at tertiary level.   “For every 20 people who go to the university to study art, only two become practicing artists. The rest give up on the profession shortly after graduation and transition into other ;’more rewarding’ careers,” Ms Jepkorir adds. This statistic shocks me and I seek to interrogate it further. “It has something to do with the African culture,” Maina offers. “Prior to the colonial period, Africans made a lot of artwork both for decorative and utility purposes. We would make masks for our spiritual leaders, gourds and pots for our meals, and decorate spears and shields in readiness for war. We did not, however, paint on canvass and hang such paintings on our walls. Neither did we employ graffiti as a form of protest against our rulers.” “When our universities teach art,” Mbuthia continues, “Much of their curriculum is merely pasted from the curriculum of Western universities, and very little effort goes towards designing a truly authentic arts curriculum that will resonate with many Africans. Therefore, our arts graduates graduate from institutions of higher learning armed with skills that are more likely to impress a resident of Paris than a local.” OK Rabala adds that failure to tailor our curriculum to the needs of the local arts market is partly the reason why some Kenyan contemporary artists only excel after they relocate to foreign countries. Wangeci Mutu, Naomi Wanjiku Gakunga and Khalai Jimase are among some of the Kenyan artists making waves abroad. The Kenyan art market is also blamed for being woefully uninformed. Jepkorir notes that most Kenyan art lovers are only privy to a dozen or so local artists, and would only seek to collect artworks by a select few. Art centers and galleries in the country are also to blame for featuring only works by a certain clique of artists year in year out in their exhibitions. As a result, only a select group of artists get to make a fortune from the craft as their names tend to appear more frequently in both the local and foreign press and exhibitions. This, Jepkorir argues, sidelines upcoming artists as they face an uphill climb in competing for the same space as the established and 'revered’ artists. “I have seen many art buyers who walk into a gallery and ask, 'Which is the biggest name?’ They then proceed to purchase the artwork, oblivious of the fact that other pieces by lesser known artists might impress them too,” she notes. OK Rabala observes that for an artist, creating new works and waiting for your studio to do the marketing for you won’t get you very far. “It is the digital age of social media and the techno-savvy artists who have their own personal websites and huge followings on their Instagram accounts tend to generate more interest for their works and can market to people from across the world,” he says. “The problem,” Rabala continues, “Is that many artists are not intrinsically entrepreneurial. They just want to produce quality artworks and not have to focus on the marketing aspect. Artists are not businessmen and many of them are of the view that commercialising their work cheapens it.” HANDLING MARKET FOR ARTISTS Ms Jepkorir adds that it would be nice if there were organisations that would not only handle the marketing for artists, but also provide them with residency programmes that would accord artists with shelter and further training opportunities. “Artists create better work when their other basic needs are fully met,” she says. There are a number of art spaces such as GoDown Arts Centre and Kuona Trust in Kenya where artists occupy studios on a landlord-tenant basis. But even such centres have in the past been saddled with financial problems, often requiring fundraisings and donor funding to stay afloat. Art events in the country are often sponsored by foreign outfits such as the British Institute in East Africa, Alliance Français and the Goethe Institute. “Art galleries have done very little to raise the standards of art in the country. Many of them have actually shut down in the past decade due to mismanagement, and the few that remain open only seek to exploit artists by charging commissions of up to 50 per cent for sold works,” complains OK Rabala, who picked up art in 1993 while working as a security guard at Gallery Watatu. Gallery Watatu was closed in 2012 and its artworks were auctioned for as little as Sh100. Ms Jepkorir reserves the most damning criticism for  the government, particularly the Ministry of Sports and Culture under Cabinet Secretary Hassan Wario. The government, she says, has done very little to promote the local art scene. She cites the France Art Biennale fiasco that has dogged the local art scene in recent years, with Chinese artists having to represent the country in France in 2013 and 2015. “Part of the problem,” Jepkorir says, “Is that the arts have been lumped in the same ministry as sports, and nearly all of the funding that the ministry gets is channelled towards sports, hence sidelining art. The CS is on the record for telling artists that they will start receiving more money once they start 'making as much noise’ as sportsmen and women. How are supposed to create as much impact as the sportsmen when the government has not set up structures that will enable us to 'make noise’ in art?” Ms Jepkorir is of the opinion that legislation should be passed that will require county governments to set aside a percentage of their revenues for the promotion of culture. The county governments should then set up art centers in the counties where talented youth would come and practice their skills. “Only the government can save the local art scene from its downward spiral,” says the curator.   The Nairobi art scene, in particular, has never been as perceptible as it was this year.