Family members of the self-proclaimed National Resistance Movement (NRM) 'general' Miguna Miguna have reacted angrily over the government’s decision to 'deport' him to Canada. News of Mr Miguna deportation hit headlines on Tuesday night that he had been put into a KLM flight that left Nairobi for Amsterdam then Canada Tuesday night. As news trickled in on Wednesday morning, dozens of his family members and friends gathered at his Kanyilum village in Nyando, Kisumu County, to discuss on the government’s move and their next course of action. During the meeting, the family members took the time to rekindle their moments with him right from his childhood in a humble village to his now thriving career as a prominent. They gathered under a tree in a homestead that had mud-walled houses with rusty iron sheets. One old man in grey beard held a cane between his legs and peered in the ground before he spat as though he was cursing something. Another one, their spokesman and Miguna’s cousin Erick Odago, wore a light green shirt, jungle green pants and brown shoes, one leg over another in a green plastic chair. Describing him as a forthright person, Mr Odago said that Miguna, who is the last born in a family of seven, grew up in a family with a humble background as he lost his father before he was born. “We can’t understand how they call him a foreigner. He was born here, went to schools here and even studied at the University of Nairobi University,” Mr Odago said. Jared Oyando, his uncle described him as very loving person. He said Mr Miguna last paid them a visit in January and he brought them gifts. He said that Miguna was the breadwinner of the family and that his 'deportation' has depressed them a lot. Mr Miguna who had been held for five days in police cells for taking part in the swearing in of Nasa leader Raila Odinga a week ago was put into a KLM flight on Tuesday night that left Nairobi for Amsterdam. The Interior Ministry claimed the lawyer renounced his Kenyan citizenship some years back. His relatives refuted the claims asking how he was allowed to contest in the last General Election if indeed he was a foreigner. “Miguna vied for Nairobi governorship in the last election. the IEBC allowed him to vie because he was a Kenyan citizen and so those claims are baseless,” added Mr Oyando. They accused the government of intimidating Miguna by 'deporting' him as he was enjoying his right of being a dual citizen. “We requested the government not to treat Miguna as a Canadian only, we know Miguna has dual citizenship which is acceptable by law,’’ they said. The State though has said Mr Miguna got his Canadian citizenship when Kenya was still under the old constitution and where it required one to renounce the Kenyan nationality as soon as you get a foreign one. It also argued that Mr Miguna did not reapply his Kenyan nationality upon the 2010 constitution that allowed dual nationality. Mr Miguna has however said he has never renounced his Kenyan citizenship.   Lawyer receives rousing reception upon arrival.