Among the activists who were at the Nation Centre on Wednesday morning to condemn a State crack down on the media was a man who has been in the fight for years and who has just taken up a new role. Fifty-two-year-old Houghton Irungu had a pensive look in front of cameras and microphones as his colleagues in the civil society shared their thoughts. When his turn came, he had two issues to put across. One was on the importance of an independent Press. “There is no way that the four pillars that Jubilee says it wants to leave as a legacy for this country can be achieved without allowing a free Press,” he said, and from his accent no one could doubt that he got his secondary and university education in Britain. PRESS FREEDOMHis other message was on the importance of having a credible Communications Authority, questioning why Director-General Francis Wangusi, who had been reinstated by a court, had been barred from accessing his office. “Unless we see the reinstatement of a credible Communications Authority for this country, then we’ll not see a fair and neutral arbitrator in this process. This is very dangerous for democracy,” he said as he wound up his two-minute speech. Mr Irungu, a father of seven, will on Thursday be a month into his job as the executive director of Amnesty International Kenya, taking over from Justus Nyang’aya who had held the position for eight years. MASS PROTEST He has worked with Oxfam as the Pan-Africa Director between 2003 and 2013; with the Society for International Development as the associate director from 2013-2017 and as the executive director of Chapter One Kenya from August to November 2017. Given the recent actions by the government as it moves to quash dissent, it promises to be a testing period ahead for Mr Irungu and his fellow human rights defenders. And despite his new appointment, he told the Sunday Nation that if there was need to go to the streets to push for what was right, he will do it. “Given the urgency of human rights in our country and the vision we have for 47 million Kenyans, then there is room for middle class or executive directors on matters of human rights,” he said. DIPLOMACYHowever, he believes that protests, like the 2015 one he participated in where demonstrators demolished walls fencing off the playground of Lang’ata Road Primary School, will only be waged after other channels have failed. “I recognise now that many offices have opened doors to me. I will use those doors and perhaps we may not need to organise a demonstration or protest if the door is open if we can have a face-to-face discussion,” he said. He added: “But we reserve the right, should we be denied an open door, to go and stand outside the gate and request them to come to the gate and hand over a petition as we did with the Ministry of Health earlier last year in the context of the doctors’ strike.” RULE OF LAWMr Irungu, who has a degree from the School of Oriental African Studies at the University of London and a Master’s from the history department of the University of Dar-es-Salaam, considers himself an agitator of public rights but not an enemy of the State. “There is a common misconception that human rights activists are anti-State. It is not true. Human rights activists want a State that is responsive, that is governed by the rule of law and that takes as its primary focus the public interest,” he said. In his new role, Mr Irungu will be in charge of the operations of the Kenyan office of Amnesty International and will be reporting to the headquarters in London. He will be heading a team of 15 whose core focus is to research on pertinent topics and release reports. “I come to the position in 2018. This is a historically symbolic year in the sense that this is the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights globally,” he said. COLLABORATION Amnesty International, he said, is funded by donations from people across the globe. “My programme is 75 per cent funded by individual gifts and contributions by people who believe in human rights across the world. "Over the next five years, I intend to expand that support and to ask Kenyans also to support human rights work,” he said. As a parting shot, Mr Irungu asked Kenyans not to view human rights work as a reserve for activists only. “It is our work and if citizens are more active in their communities, in the national debates, much of the corruption and the human rights violations and impunity that we see would have no space to run to,” he said. The push by Mr Irungu and other civil society players to have the State reinstate television transmission and condemnation of Tuesday evening’s act by police to surround the Nation Centre as they sought to arrest three NTV journalists, has drawn accolades from the Kenya Editors Guild.   Editors want signals for three TV stations restored.