Nasa co-principal Musalia Mudavadi and Cotu Secretary-General Francis Atwoli have reconciled weeks after they disagreed over Mr Mudavadi’s failure to show up in the January 30, 2018 ‘swearing-in’ of Nasa principal Raila Odinga. On February 2, Mr Atwoli said Mr Mudavadi was no longer the Luhya community spokesman as he did not attend the 'swearing-in'. SPOKESMAN Mr Mudavadi was endorsed Luhya spokesman in 2017. The reconciliatory meeting held at Mr Atwoli’s Khwisero home in Kakamega County on Sunday brought together political leaders and Luhya community elders.   Others those who attended the meeting include Busia Senator Amos Wako, Vihiga Woman Representative Beatrice Adagala, MPs Sakwa Bunyasi (Nambale), Tindi Mwale (Butere), Omboko Milemba (Emuhaya), Christopher Aseka (Khwisero), Ayub Savula (Lugari), Alfred Agoi (Sabatia) and Ernest Ogesi (Vihiga). The elders from the five counties of Western region helped broker peace between the political leaders whose unity had been threatened by disagreements arising from the ‘swearing in’ ceremony. “We have agreed that Mr Mudavadi will continue to spearhead the Luhya community as its spokesperson," said Mr Atwoli. He said Mr Mudavadi's leadership could only be withdrawn after if the community members, who endorsed him in their thousands, meet and decide to dethrone him. Mr Atwoli said the unity that the Luhya community attained on December 31, 2016 was a unity of purpose and would be jealously guarded.   UNITY Western region elders Chairman Philip Masinde said that by working together, the elders sought to move the region forward politically and economically. "We want to see peace and unity amongst our people. The decision we made earlier on unity of our people still remains," said Mr Masinde. Mr Mudavadi lauded Mr Atwoli for faulting him after the January 30 event. “I like criticism because it makes me understand where I have gone wrong,” he said. Mr Mudavadi urged Kenyans to look beyond the January 30 event and revisit the components of Nasa, which stand for electoral justice, consolidation of devolution and full independence of institutions, including the Judiciary and media. “I am in Nasa because l know its roots and understand its focus. Let nobody think that our failure to stand together at Uhuru Park changed anything," said Mr Mudavadi.   Mr Atwoli says he will never support Mr Mudavadi who is also the Nasa co-principal.