Kenyan professional golfers on Tuesday received a major boost in their campaign to prepare for this year’s Barclays Kenya Open golf championship set for March 22 to 25 at Muthaiga Golf Club. The Kenya Open Golf Limited (KOGL) presented a Sh2 million cheque to the Professional Golfers of Kenya (PGK) chairman Charan Thethy at Muthaiga Golf Club. The money will be used to meet the expenses of two South African professionals who will be coming to Kenya to help the local pros prepare for the Open. Kenya Open Golf Limited chairman Peter Kanyago said the board is committed towards improving golf standards in the country. “We remain deeply committed to ensure that the sport of golf grows, not just among the professional players, but also among the junior players,” he said. He said the training was specialised one ahead of the open and, as part of the preparations the local pros have been having through the golf series. “As part of the partnership, we are sponsoring the two professionals from South Africa, who in any case had been engaged by the PGK to train the local professionals ahead of this year’s Kenya Open. In addition, there will also be a trainer to help our local Pros work on the nutrition and mental part of the game,” said Kanyago. This year, Kenya will have 22 pros though Kanyago said more may join through the Open pre-qualifying events on March 18 and 19 which will be open to players different parts of the world including some of the locals who would have made it through the on going series. “On behalf of the PGK, I want to thank KOGL for the donation towards our preparations for the 2018 Kenya Open. This gesture comes at the right time as we are in the middle of the qualifying rounds for the tournament. This money will be put to good use and ensure that our pros as adequately prepared for the Kenya Open as possible,” Thethy said. Meanwhile, at Vet Lab Sports Club during the weekend Evans Obare carded 43 points to win the second leg of the Johnnie Walker Gold Reserve series. He won four points from George Mburu who beat Michael Kimani and Joseph Kisolo on countback with 39 points. Taking the ladies title was Hellen Manyara on 36 followed by Rahab Heho on 34. The guest winner was D. Kanyora on 45 points, winning well ahead of J. Gitau on 38. The nines went to Ayaz Manji on 21 and Godwin Karuga on 22 and Kenya Breweries managing director Jane Karuku was the staff winner with 33 points. The following is a summarised weekend golf round-up: At Sigona, Mug of Mugs sponsored by Tononoka Group; Overall winner Jay Shah 41pts cb Shivani Patel 41, Nishith Patel 39, Peter Waweru 38. lady winner Vinashri Mann 34- guest A Yamani 35pts; At Royal Nairobi Golf Club; Wanabima Golf Day sponsored by Sanla Insurance, AAR Health Care, Continental Re, Re-Insurance Solutions and Kenya Re; Winner Harrison Mungai Kariuki 45, D.B.Joe 40 cb Joe Masiga. Lady- Carol Okara 38, Nancy Ikinu 37, Elizabeth Njau 35. Seniors Henry Kanyua 36. Sponsors Edna Thiongo 38, Joseph Kamiri 37, Guest- Ken Muchege 41 points.  