Pressure is mounting on authorities to apprehend and prosecute the police officer who shot dead a Meru University of Science and Technology student Evans Njoroge. Student Association Secretary-General Evans Njoroge was shot dead on Tuesday. PROBE While passing condolences to his family and friends, leaders in Meru asked Vice-Chancellor Japhet Magambo to step aside to pave way for an investigation into student unrest at the university. The calls come even as police said they were yet to establish what led to the killing of the student leader. “We are still investigating the incident. I am with the criminal investigation officers on the ground to find out the truth. We will have a comprehensive report in the course of the day,” Tigania West OCPD Adamson Furaha said. Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi said the police officer who killed the student should face the law. “I strongly condemn the violence that has rocked Meru University and culminated in the brutal murder of the institution's student leader. May I convey my heartfelt condolences to the family of the student and the entire university. I urge thorough investigations into the killing,” Mr Murungi said. STEP A He said he had asked University Education and Research PS Micheni Ntiba to intervene and restore order in the institution. Senate Deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki called for the arrest and prosecution of those responsible for the killing. “I ask the Cabinet secretary for Education and other relevant government agencies, including Meru University of Science and Technology Council, to listen to the demands of the students who have consistently protested, asking for the removal of the vice chancellor, and take action accordingly,” the Tharaka-Nithi senator said. South Imenti MP Kathuri Murungi said the VC should step down and the institution should be immediately reopened. “Those involved should be investigated with speed and the culprit to face full force of the law. “This is the only public university in Meru County and we cannot sit and watch its downfall. Heads must roll,” the MP said. REOPEN Meru County Assembly Speaker Joseph Kaberia termed the killing “an extra-judicial execution”. “I appeal that all the concerned rogue police officers be arrested and subjected to due process. Our heartfelt condolences to the family members and friends of the deceased persons and all victims of the police brutality,” he said. According to witnesses, the student was shot within a farm, far from the main road, as he fled from pursuing police officers. The university senate has since postponed the re-opening of the institution to March 6. It had earlier been scheduled for February 28.   Local leaders want VC Japheth Magambo to step aside.