Q.I normally refrain from making New Year resolutions, but this year, I promised to get myself a new job since I think I am stuck in a rut. Generally, what kind of employees are employers looking for?  Congratulations. This is a great resolution. Easier said than done though, but I am glad you are looking for ways to equip yourself in preparation for this career-changing decision. Now I want you to sit back and imagine you own the company you work for. As you enjoy the thought, I want you to think about the kind of employees you would like to work for you. What skills, behaviour and values would you like them to possess? What would make your employees stand out compared to those of your competitors or other companies? Now back to reality. You have your answer. Employers seek employees who possess the skills and competencies required for tasks assigned. But this is so basic and common, and in many professions, easy to find. What will however make you stand out from the pack and give you that competitive advantage is the attitude that you bring to work, a factor that you have within your control. The right attitude means you have a teachable spirit and are ready to learn, innovate and increase not only your worth, but add value your employer. The right attitude means you have personal drive, are honest and dependable, and are a person of integrity, an attribute you apply in your work. It also means that you are willing to move from your comfort zone to beat that crucial deadline because it is the right thing to do. Besides this, you are approachable, are a team player, respect others and build bridges across different groups within the organisation. I feel compelled to state some of the things employers dislike in their employees. Incompetent employees, busy bees who are always up and about yet no one can put a finger to their contribution. Ego-driven employees who feel more entitled than others, have little or no respect for others and constantly complain and spread rumours and falsehoods to destroy others. Employees who lack initiative, are indecisive, fail to learn from their mistakes, are over competitive and have little patience for teamwork. I am sure you are thinking such employee do not exist, they do, the only reason you have not seen them is because good managers nip them at the bud.    “I only hire people that I can have a beer with,” he said