The family of former vocal Anglican Bishop Alexander Kipsang Muge on Wednesday demanded fresh investigations into his death. The renewed calls came during a low-key requiem mass for his wife, Herma Muge, who died last week. Despite Bishop Muge’s high stature in the push for the second liberation, no politician from Uasin Gishu County or any other part of the country attended his wife’s mass in Eldoret. The family complained that subsequent regimes have failed to unearth the mysterious death of the outspoken cleric 28 years ago. ELUSIVE JUSTICE Speaking at ACK St Matthews Cathedral in Eldoret during mass for Mrs Muge who passed on last week, the family, through Noah Melly, a nephew of the former bishop, faulted the previous and the current regime for not doing much to ensure that the family gets justice for his death in a mysterious road accident. “Failure to investigate the cause of the death has caused a lot of suffering to us as a family. Anyway, our only consolation is that Bishop Muge was a man of God. The verdict is with God,” said Mr Melly who is also the chairman of Mrs Muge’s burial committee. No politician from the region attended the requiem mass for Mrs Muge who was also a cleric.   WIFE'S PAIN Mr Melly said that it was regrettable that Bishop Muge’s wife has passed on without knowing what killed her husband 28 years ago. “Herma underwent a lot of pain. It was our wish as a family that we are told how and who was involved in Bishop Muge’s death. Can those who caused his death be brought to book?” said Mr Melly. Before he died, then Labour Minister Peter Okondo warned Bishop Muge not to step in Western Kenya or he would return home dead. The warning came after Bishop Muge intensified his criticism of the Kanu regime. The bishop took on the challenge and he did not return home alive after he was involved in a mysterious road crash on August 14, 1990. The bishop died when a milk truck crashed into his car as he was returning home from Busia. During Mrs Muge’s requiem mass Wednesday, retired Eldoret ACK Bishop Thomas Kogo, who served with Bishop Muge for many years, narrated how he spoke with him before his death.   DEATH THREATS “He told me he had received death threats against visiting Katakwa but he told me that God’s ministry comes first,” said Bishop Kogo. He urged religious leaders to emulate Bishop Muge whom he said always stood for what he felt was right. “The church should not be swayed but (should) serve Kenyans equally without taking political sides,” said Bishop Kogo. Bishop Muge’s daughter, Esther Muge, said that the death of her father was a big blow to the family. “He was a pillar to our family. We are still crying for justice to be told what killed him,” said Ms Muge. SUPPORT She thanked all those who have stood with the family, including those who supported them following the death of her mother. “Without you it would have been hard but you’ve made it easy for us,’ said Ms Muge while fighting back tears. Kajiado ACK Bishop Jeremiah Tama, who was ordained together with Bishop Muge in 1975, described the late cleric as an avid crusader for equity and social justice. “He wanted everybody to be treated equally. He had a heart for the oppressed. Where there was injustice, he always went there despite threats to his life,” said bishop Tama.   DIALOGUE The ACK clerics urged President Uhuru Kenyatta and Nasa chief Raila Odinga to sit down and dialogue to end the political standoff currently facing the country. Bishop Muge is remembered for his efforts in championing for democracy and fight against corruption, social injustice, ethnicity and land grabbing. Mrs Muge will be buried Thursday at her home in Kipng’oror in Nandi County hundreds of miles away from where her husband is buried. Bishop Muge’s remains were interred at the Church’s grounds in Eldoret.   Had TJRC started off on the right footing, Kenyans would already have been treated to shocking details about their past.