Core inflation is likely to remain subdued in the short term as Kenyan consumers continue to struggle to access credit from the banking sector, analysts say. Demand-driven inflation (non-food-non-fuel) would normally go up when there is too much money in the economy chasing a few goods or services. READ: WERE: Why cost of living will remain high for months It has, however, remained subdued, averaging below five per cent in the past one year (3.8 per cent), as the purchasing power of Kenyans erodes both due to lack of credit and a less than stellar performance of the economy. On the other hand, there were increases last year in supply side inflationary pressure due to drought, which pushed food costs up and rising crude prices that saw headline inflation go up above the 7.5 per cent preferred limit in mid-2017. “Demand side pressures are expected to remain mute, underscored by weak private sector credit expansion. Growth in private sector credit picked up to 2.4 per cent in December 2017 compared to two per cent two months earlier. Banking sector adjustment Further weakness in credit markets may stem from the banking sector’s adjustment to credit risk treatment under the IFRS 9 regulatory framework,” said Commercial Bank of Africa (CBA) economists in a note on inflation. READ: New accounting rules signal rise in monthly loan charges ALSO READ: EDITORIAL: Banks, KRA should agree on new taxation regime Dyer & Bair Investment Bank, in its 2018 macroeconomic outlook, also says that the demand pressures are expected to remain muted, while the headline inflation is also likely to remain below the preferred limit due to better weather, even as food subsidies come to an end and fuel price continue rising. The lower core inflation has been cited by the central bank’s monetary policy committee as one of the reasons why it has maintained the base lending rate unchanged at 10 per cent since September 2016. In the meeting held last month, the regulator said there is room for a more accommodative monetary policy in the near future, which would signal the possibility of easing or cutting of the rate should the inflationary and currency situation remain favourable.  