The decision by the Uhuru Kenyatta administration to force political activist Miguna Miguna into exile last week is full of contradictions. Just how a country that has for many years been accused of hosting the Rwandese genocidaire Félicien Kabuga found a government critic better known for his put-downs in TV debates threatening is difficult to understand. The fact that a series of lawful court orders requiring Mr Miguna be released from police detention was ignored in the run-up to the so-called deportation to Canada and that the State appeared to take away a citizenship right guaranteed by the Constitution is even more intriguing. The citizenship crack down has since been broadened to target more opposition figures, with letters from the Immigration requiring them to surrender their passports. DICTATORSHIPHas Kenya drifted back into the murky political waters where a paranoid regime sees citizenship as a weapon in its hand to use against critics as it wishes? Is Kenya going the path of Ivory Coast where the current president Alassane Ouattara was once barred from participating in an election because his parentage was conveniently traced to a neighbouring country? In a country where political loyalty mirrors ethnicity, will a whole tribe or clan one day wake up to find itself stateless? Just how far will the citizenship crack down go? Dr Miguna has indicated that he will wage the mother of all legal battles to reclaim and protect his citizenship right. And the law appears to be on his side. NRM OUTLAWEDBut faced with the arrogance of a government that has not concealed its contempt for the courts, he is probably better off seeking a layman’s opinion than a lawyer’s advice. If the National Resistance Movement (NRM) “general” were to give me an ear, I would try to convince him to avoid the legal route and begin charting a smoother path back home. Dr Miguna should particularly consider making peace with Dr Fred Matiang’i, the Interior Cabinet Secretary, and have NRM expunged from the list of proscribed organised criminal groups forthwith. REBRANDAnd I can’t think of a better way of earning State protection than by rebranding NRM as Nairobi Business Community. The dreadlocked Mungiki-type group has been publicly paraded as a force against street protests in Nairobi. Media reports have shown members of the group reigning terror on opposition supporters. Days to the mock swearing-in of Raila Odinga as the “people’s president” on January 30, the group sensationally claimed it had booked the Uhuru Park grounds for a “circumcision” ceremony. The Nairobi County government later emerged to say the park was not available for use by any group. But a day to the event the Nairobi Business Community youth made an appearance on the grounds in the company of some tribal elders, purportedly cleansed the grounds and strolled back home. Dear Dr Miguna, face Nairobi, see where the regime’s heart lies, and get your Kenyan citizenship back. jkotieno@ke.nationmedia.com @otienootieno  