Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula are trying too hard to come up with excuses for missing the “people’s president” event on January 30. The straightforward answer they should give is that the “swearing-in” was an illegal act. Period. They should explain that is why they skipped it, and leave it at that. There is no need to sugarcoat anything. Giving woolly justifications makes them look ridiculous. Kalonzo has been particularly shifty. One time he says he was put under “house arrest” on the material day. Another day he claims his absence was part of a “Nasa summit strategy” agreed upon with the principals to ensure not all of them were present at Uhuru Park. Oh God, which is which? The Nasa trio should just come clean and admit that there are embedded problems in Nasa for which they are not to blame. I am quite sure they were taken by surprise when they watched the recent BBC interview fielded by their chief principal, Raila Odinga, where he said there “shall” be an election by August – which would be the third general election within a year. If they were honest, they will agree a lot of decisions in Nasa are made that way – unilaterally, on the hoof. 'SWEARING IN' Reportedly the decision to boycott the October 26 election last year was done in the same way, without consultations. It is the same case with the “swearing-in” when it was first mooted last year. I am also sure they have no clue what the NRM phantom is. It has become the routine for them to learn about major Nasa developments from the media like everybody else. If the three men were candid in explaining their predicament this way, the public would be sympathetic. Everybody appreciates that Kalonzo has been under a lot of stress, what with having a sickly wife on top of his other troubles. Musalia also has had to contend with various distractions, like the noisy Cotu guy Francis Atwoli “disowning” him as the Luhya leader. Wasn’t it the same Atwoli who gave him the crown only last year? Which reminds me, the unionist would do workers a lot of good if he concentrated on their issues rather than running his mouth on everything under the sun. There is hope Kalonzo, Musalia and Wetang’ula now find themselves in a fix after being blacklisted by Raila’s supporters. Still, there is hope. Raila’s followers can be quite forgiving. Look at the case of Miguna Miguna. Who would have imagined he would be their hero today after being ostracised for writing two acidic books about their Baba? Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has become their latest fad. This will pass. Kalonzo will be partially redeemed if he steps forward to be “oathed”. Just don’t hold your breath on him summoning the nerve to do that. DIALOGUE You may have observed that over the last several months, President Uhuru Kenyatta has absolutely resisted being dragged into verbal tit-for-tats with Nasa. The silence has extended to the “swearing-in” affair. His opponents have tried their best to draw him out into a dialogue, but he has remained aloof. Kalonzo, who had lately been especially vocal about it, was ignored. I can bet when the President heard about the fantasies of a fresh election come August, he was in stitches. The assertion attracted a hail of withering comments on social media from across the continent. It’s becoming obvious that Kalonzo, Musalia and Wetang’ula don’t share the same road map to Canaan with their co-principal, denials notwithstanding. Maybe they don’t even know where this Canaan is any more, what with whimsical route changes being announced every other day. Are they aware of a referendum being contemplated to coincide with the August general election? God have mercy on Kenya. * * * The less said about Joshua Miguna Miguna, the better. It’s enough to say the worst thing that could be inflicted on anybody is to get ensnared with this personality. Good luck to Canada. Warigi is a socio-political commentator gitauwarigi@yahoo.com   The Nasa trio should admit that there are embedded problems in Nasa for which they are not to blame.