What did you and your significant other do last Valentine’s or the two before that? You settled for the good old flowers, chocolate and dinner or maybe the two of you travelled down to the coast to spend time at the beach. How about doing something different this year as you reconnect and renew your love? These are our top seven suggestions. DODOS TOWER IN NAIVASHA With the two elections in quick succession late last year and a flurry of activities in January as we all tried to make up for lost time, you are probably longing for some peace and quiet. There are few places you will visit in Kenya that are more tranquil than Dodos Tower, a luxury retreat in Naivasha. This eight story building built in the 1930’s stands on an isthmus in the middle of Lake Naivasha and Lake Oloidien. In addition to the views it offers, Dodos Tower is a wildlife retreat with a variety of wild life some of which you can watch from your room.  It is also a bird watchers’ haven with over 350 species of birds. They will be open this Valentine’s Season but you will need to call to make a reservation. MANDA ISLAND IN LAMU Now, the average person can’t resist the allure of the beach. During festivities though, Kenyans from all the other towns head down there and the prospect of a crowded beach can be a little off putting. The Manda Island is an unspoiled paradise that will give you both the beach and some peace and quiet. It is linked to Lamu by ferry and is famed for its long, quiet beaches where you can kick off your shoes, bask in the sun and bond with your significant other. Manda Island is also home to the ruins of the old town of Takwa. After an afternoon in the water, the two of you can take a speed boat to the ruins to enjoy the sunset as you try and visualise the town that it was. You will not have to worry about accommodation as Manda Island holds several luxury resorts. KIAMBETHU TEA FARM IN TIGONI If you live in any of Kenya’s bustling towns, then Kiambethu Tea Farm is the perfect steal away with your loved one. Tucked in middle of a sea of tea plantations in Tigoni, Limuru, this farm redefines the word ‘serene’. Standing at 7 200 feet, it is one of Kenya’s oldest tea farms. They will be open this Valentine’s Day. A visit here begins with a cup of tea grown on the farm with the host Fiona Mitchell. Thereafter, you and you and your significant other can take a walk in the indigenous forest. Then you can have lunch and drinks in the garden as you take in the sweeping views of the greenery and just exhale. Your lunch may be punctuated by visits from The Colubus monkeys which inhabit the surrounding indigenous forest. It is just an hour away from Nairobi’s CBD and other than the changing atmosphere as you enter the highlands, the drive there will also give you a taste of Kenyan rural life. TAMARIND DHOW If you love the ocean, if you have thought about gazing at the waves and the blue skies as you sipped at cocktails with the lapping ocean as the sound track, then the Tamarind Dhow is the experience you should be looking for this Valentine’s Day.   The dhow is basically a floating restaurant made from a converted jahazi. The jahazi is an Arab sailing boats which has been refurbished to make floating restaurants. There is a night cruise planned for this Valentine’s Day, where guests can enjoy dinner and each other’s company, take in the sea air and the images the night skies draw on the water. If you would like to dance on this romantic night, there is lots of room for dancing on the dhow. PICNIC AT KARURA Karura Forest is one of those places that demand more than one visit as it is impossible to see all of its beauty in just one day. Located in the north of the Central business district, the 1,000 hectares of bush and trees that is Karura forest is surrounded by Muthaiga and Gigiri some of the leafier suburbs of Nairobi. Karura is just the place for that romantic picnic with your loved one. You can also go on the nature trail where you will enjoy the variety of bird life as well as the flora. There is at least 50 kilometres of nature trail here. You can visit the 50-foot high water fall. When you see it, your first instinct will not be to whip out your camera to take pictures but to stand still and take in its magnificence. The forest is well mapped out so you do not have to worry about getting lost. This spot is just 5km from Nairobi CBD and it is an affordable option as the entry fee is just Sh200 for adults. If you are a jogger and would like a run to kick start the big day, this is also a great spot for that. PARADISE LOST RESORT AND PARK This 54 acre piece of land in Kiambu is a haven for outdoor lovers. If you and your significant other love the outdoors and the countryside, you should consider paying Paradise Lost Resort and Park a visit.   The resort offers a myriad of activities ranging from picnics and boat riding to horse riding and camel riding. If you would like to walk around, you can go on a guided tour of the coffee farm which surrounds it or the ostrich farm where you can feed the ostriches. There are also caves estimated to be 2.5 million years old whose entrance is screened by a cascading water fall. If by night fall you still want more of the outdoors, they have camping facilities. Bird lovers will also make a good fit here as there are up to 60 species of birds that call this spot home. This find is a 20 minutes drives from the city. Entrance at the gate is just Sh300. OLOOLUA NATURE TRAIL IN KAREN If you are looking for an escape from the bustle of the city but do not have a lot of time on your hands to go out of town, The Oloolua Trail is just what you are looking for. Located 20km from Nairobi CBD, this spot is ideal for walks during which you can enjoy the flora. The 250 hectares of tropical dry forest also host a picnic site. You can bring your own food or come prepared for a cook out. Along the 5km long nature trail, you will enjoy many attractions such as the forest cover and the magnificent 20 feet water fall. Part of the Mbagathi river flows through it so you can enjoy the calming flow of water from its banks. There are also caves to explore. These caves are rumoured to have been hide out of Mau Mau during the colonial times. Here’s a chance to be one with history even if briefly. If you love it here and would like to spend the night, there is a secure campsite.  