Kenya’s lone ranger Sabrina Wanjiku Simader on Thursday had a respectable debut at the Winter Olympic Games on the slopes of Pyeongchang, South Korea. The 19-year-old Austria-based Kenyan finished in a respectable position 59 from a starting rank of 67 with a time of One minute, 23.27 seconds in the giant slalom competition. The event, which had earlier been scheduled to be held on Tuesday, was postponed due to strong winds at the Games venues. Wanjiku, who started number 67, which is based on ranking by start of Olympics, was at positon 59 after the first round, during which six athletes fell. SOME BRUISES In her second round, she fell at the turn of one of the “bridges” ending up with some bruises. She expressed hope of a better outing in her next event, the Super Giant Slalom (Super-G), scheduled for Saturday. “I am happy with my start although it was tough under these conditions. I have gained more experience and confidence and God willing, will do even better in two days’ time”, expressed Wanjiku after the race. Her sentiments were echoed by her coach, Christian and chef de mission, Philip Boit. “She has a huge potential and future. She was right there with the best, separated by just over 10 seconds by the winner”, Boit, who made his debut at the 1998 Winter Games in Nagano, said. Among those who cheered the teen sensation were National Olympic Committee of Kenya President Paul Tergat alongside Kenya’s Ambassador to Korea Mohamed Gello and Rwandan Ambassador to Korea Emma Isumbingabo. “This is absolutely commendable performance for a debutante at the major Olympics event in a sport of this nature. I am very proud of her performance and impressed with her spirits,” said Tergat. During the competition, Manuela Moelgg of Italy won in a time of 1:10.62, with second position taken by American Mikaela Shiffrin in 1:10.82. Shiffrin opened her Olympics with a title and figure skaters Aljona Savchenko and Bruno Massot smashed their own world record to grab gold as full Olympic competition resumed on Thursday after days of wind disruption. The 22-year-old Shiffrin kicked off her bid for multiple titles in Pyeongchang with a storming second run in the giant slalom, ending a nervous wait after it was postponed because of high winds on Monday. The Sochi 2014 slalom champion from America was overcome after her powerful descent brought her gold from Norway’s Ragnhild Mowinckel by 0.39 seconds. “I don’t know how to explain it. It’s crazy. There’s so much emotion,” Shiffrin said. “To come to the Olympics after some tough races on the World Cup circuit and to charge like that — I risked it on the second run — it’s super-cool.” Earlier, Aksel Lund Svindal, 35, became the Olympics’ oldest alpine ski champion in the men’s downhill, with Kjetil Jansrud completing a Norwegian one-two. “Attacking Viking” Svindal, coming to the end of a stellar career, clocked 1min 40.25sec down the 3km-long Jeongseon course to hand Norway its first Olympic downhill gold. “It feels pretty good, I’m extremely happy,” said Svindal. “World Cup wins, I’ve been there a few times and know how that feels, but this is different. “It’s one of those things where you keep looking up the hill because I want to make sure it’s real, like no one comes and skis faster.” The Germans Savchenko and Massot were in floods of tears after they won the pairs figure skating by a whisker ahead of China’s Sui Wenjing and Han Cong, who missed out after Sui took a tumble. After an error in the short programme, hopes had faded for Savchenko and Massot but they scored 159.09 points in the free dance, breaking their own world record, to pull off a fairytale victory.   "I don't know how to explain it. It's crazy. There's so much emotion," Shiffrin said.