Fiery lawyer Miguna Miguna was set to spend Tuesday night in police custody even after High Court Judge Luka Kimaru ordered his release on bond. In an order delivered last evening, Justice Kimaru directed that Mr Miguna be presented before him Wednesday morning. He further ordered that no criminal charge should be filed against him. In a day of drama, Mr Miguna was arraigned in a Kajiado court Tuesday morning, only for the Resident Magistrate Edwin Malochi to direct that he appears before Justice Kimaru not later than 3pm the same day for directions on bail terms. Mr Malochi further directed that Mr Miguna, who has been in police custody since last Friday, appears before him on February 14 for plea taking. Mr Miguna was, however, not presented before Justice Kimaru as directed by the Kajiado magistrate, despite reports suggesting that he was within the precincts of the Milimani Law Courts for the better part of the afternoon. In his ruling Tuesday, Justice Kimaru acknowledged the fact that Mr Miguna had been presented before a court of law. He, therefore, ruled that police should not continue holding him any longer. “Now that he was released on bond and has appeared before a lawful court, he remains free. If he was charged, the court should consider his request to be freed on bond,” the judge ruled. The judge had earlier in the day found Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet and Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti guilty of acting in contempt of court. But, in his ruling, the judge said he could not hold them culpable and instead threw the ball back to Mr Miguna himself, asking him to file a compensation suit against the State for violated rights. He pointed out that since the case that was filed before him required that he be produced in court, he lacked the jurisdiction to terminate the proceedings or grant him any remedy. “The court clearly evaluated the evidence presented before it; it’s clear the State acted in contempt and violated his rights but this court is not open to check on them for the disobedience,” said Justice Kimaru. NASA SUPPORTERS And, since Nasa supporters who had filled the courtroom were restless on whether he had been freed, the judge said he would not leave the premises until Miguna was brought before him. “I have been informed that he is in the building, so it remains that he is free,” the judge added before he walked out of the courtroom, leaving Nasa supporters shouting and demanding to see him. Earlier in the day, the Deputy Director of Public Prosecutions Nicholas Mutuku confirmed that Mr Miguna was arraigned before a court in Kajiado and was represented by two lawyers. A battery of lawyers who represented him protested against the fact that he had been arraigned without their knowledge. They also protested against the fact that he was arraigned before a Kajiado court yet the judge had earlier ordered that he be presented before him.  