Indigenous languages have become endangered especially in many urban homes in Kenya. Many young adults and teenagers are unable to communicate in their local languages. However, three cultural lovers have decided to come to the rescue of these languages. They have initiated a Kitui Teachers Training College Cultural Festival that was held on Friday and will focus on educating young people on the importance of local languages as a way of communication. The festival was organised by Kitui TTC Principal Catherine Irungu, Merclus Ireri Njuki, and Abraham Mutala.   GUEST PERFORMERS Besides students from the institution which is in Kitui County, guest performers also presented their items in African music and elocution, cultural dances and fashion. The college is preparing to participate in the 2018 Kenya National Music Festival which will be hosted by Nyeri County and Dedan Kimathi University of Technology (DeKUT) from August 6to 17. The theme of the Kitui festival was ‘Tapping and Nurturing Talents to Enhance National Cohesion and Integration’. The one-day event was held to celebrate the college’s good performances in the annual music festival and also nurture artistic talent. The principal said that many young adults in the city have been made to feel that communicating in local languages is inferior.   ITEMS Most items which included solo chants, secular folk music, solo instruments and solo and choral recitals were presented in local languages. Lazarus Muinde, a talented solo performer, thrilled the audience with Kamba poetry. There was also plenty of entertainment from Heron Ngonyo who presented Digo c poetry. During the event, students put their best foot forward, with Jesca Ntinyari, Alice Ndukum Sharon Ngonyo, Absalom Nyabuto, Elizabeth Wayua, Festus Mutie, Lazarus Muinde, Steve Odhiambo and Angela Osong emerging the best in solo recitals. Among the cultural dances that thrilled the audience were folk dances from the Maasai, Kalenjin, Meru, Mijikenda, Luo, Kikuyu, Kamba, Luhya and Gusii communities. There are also percussion bands featuring various traditional instruments as well as talks on culture and modelling. The chief guest, Dr Kiprop Langat, Director of Culture at the Ministry of Culture and Arts, donated trophies to the principal and the organisers.  