The recruitment of the next Director of Public Prosecutions has started following President Uhuru Kenyatta’s appointment of A seven-member panel to replace Keriako Tobiko. Mr Tobiko was nominated by the President Kenyatta for appointment as Cabinet Secretary for Environment and Forestry. Mr Tobiko, who has had a chequered tenure at the office, is awaiting vetting by the National Assembly. According to the Office of the Director Public Prosecutions Act, the president has 14 days to constitute a selection panel whenever a vacancy arises in the office. The panel includes individuals representing different bodies as required by the law. According to a Gazette notice dated February 2, those appointed to the selection panel includes Kennedy Kihara (Office of the President), Maryann Njau (Attorney General’s office) and Lilian Omollo (Ministry of Public Service). The others are Kagwiria Mbogori (Kenya National Commission on Human Rights), Elizabeth Muli (Law Society of Kenya), Francis Atwoli (Central Organisations of Trade Unions) and Halakhe Waqo (Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission). The first business of the panel will be the election of the chairperson from among themselves. It will then advertise the position and invite applications from qualified Kenyans and shortlist those who meet the requirements for interviews. After the interviews, the selection panel shall submit three names of those most qualified in order of performance to the president. The president will then choose one person from the three names and forward the name to the national Assembly for vetting. After the MPs’ vetting, the name will be sent to the president for formal appointment. The Constitution provides that the Director of Public Prosecutions will be nominated and, with the approval of the National Assembly, appointed by the President. The qualifications for appointment to the office of DPP are the same as for the appointment as a judge of the High Court. The DPP has the power to direct the Inspector-General of the National Police Service to investigate any information or allegation of criminal conduct and the Inspector-General shall comply with any such direction. He is also required to hold office for a term of eight years and shall not be eligible for re-appointment.  