Three parties in the National Super Alliance have asked Wiper Democratic Movement to make a decision on remaining in the opposition coalition. The statement from 18 lawmakers drawn from the Orange Democratic Movement, Amani National Congress and Ford Kenya came after Wiper wrote to the Speaker of the National Assembly Justin Muturi seeking the replacement of Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga in the Parliamentary Service Commission. Mr Kalonzo Musyoka’s party said it also deserved a slot in the PSC. The party wants Ms Wanga to be replaced by Borabu MP Benson Momanyi. Nasa nominated Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa, Vihiga Senator George Khaniri and Ms Wanga to the commission. Addressing journalists at Parliament buildings Tuesday, group spokesman Godfrey Osotsi accused Wiper “of rocking the coalition boat from within”. “Wiper should state categorically if it walked out of Nasa without our knowledge. We also urge the Speaker not to act on any letter but instead refer the matter to the relevant structures of Nasa,” the ANC secretary general said. He added that Wiper was allocated the deputy minority leader in the National Assembly and minority whip in the Senate and should be satisfied with the slots. Wajir West MP Ahmed Kolosh said writing directly to the Speaker instead of going through the coalition channels went against the spirit of the alliance. “Wiper cannot be in Nasa when it is convenient. We want to remind Wiper that 2017 was just days ago while 2022 is not far,” Mr Kolosh said. “Wiper should withdraw the letter immediately and be satisfied with what it has.” Uriri MP Mark Nyamita talked of Wiper “causing unnecessary drama within the coalition”. “The only thing we expect from Wiper is when Kalonzo Musyoka will be sworn in as the people’s deputy president. Nothing else,” Mr Nyamita said. However Kathiani MP and Wiper Organising Secretary Robert Mbui said the party has not breached any agreement by drafting the letter to Mr Muturi. “In the last Parliament, Wiper had a slot in the PSC which was occupied by Mr David Musila. We still believe the position belongs to us,” Mr Mbui told the Nation later. “There has never been any meeting in Nasa to discuss slots in PSC. Does it make sense for Wiper to only have one slot in the National Assembly and none in the PSC while ODM has the minority leader position and two slots in the commission?” Kisii Woman Representative Janet Ongera asked Wiper to respect the coalition agreement and channel its complaints through the Nasa parliamentary leadership.  