Recent political events dramatically reflect the paradoxical times that we are living in. The hope that many people had as we went into last year’s elections has been diminished by hardening political stances and worsening economic challenges. Strangely, we are living the contradictions that English author Charles Dickens poetically wrote about: “...it was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness", all because we cannot sit down and talk about the best interests of our country. Yet, as the need for dialogue becomes more apparent, the prospects continue to diminish. And Kenyans continue to pay the price for political uncertainty, increased insecurity, deepening ethnic and political intolerance, and the rising cost of living. HOPEWhile these and other problems require urgent measures to ensure we do not sink deeper into the unknown, strengthening devolution is the only way that the country remains more stable economically, less politically charged, and with evenly distributed opportunities for wealth creation and regional growth. I should know this. When I was first elected Governor of Kakamega on March 2013, much of the county was literally in darkness, feeder roads were generally impassable, and small-scale traders lived in fear of clashes with local government officials. Many of the youth of Kakamega, who could neither go for further studies nor grab business opportunities, were easy prey for the temptations of petty crime or drugs. FARMERSIn only five years, all that changed. We erected lighthouses in all the urban centres, organised youth into micro-business groups, and built market stalls for traders in major centres. My government has also subsidised fertiliser for subsistence farmers, supported farmers with dairy cows and poultry, and employed agricultural extension officers. We have also invested in the social and clinical health of our people. We have revamped Bukhungu Sports Stadium to international standards and, only last week, we hosted an international match. DEVELOPMENT We are also constructing a referral hospital in Kakamega Town and level-four hospitals in each of the sub-counties, complete with a round-the-clock ambulance services. In all, the economy of Kakamega has grown, and will continue to do so as we complete projects. And the people know that this has happened because of devolution. When I sought re-election last year, I met many people in far-flung areas, whose only words to me were: “Thank you, Governor, for your work”. I easily retained my seat, with a promise to continue crusading for devolution as the panacea for the problems of underdevelopment, tribalism, and deadly political competition.REPRESSIONWe need to reaffirm our commitment to devolution as the most important gain in the Constitution of Kenya 2010 that assures us of equitable distribution of national resources. It is not a secret that during the previous term, county governments encountered endless obstacles in implementing their programmes. They were thrown in the paths of governors as part of the bigger scheme to make devolution unworkable. The clampdown on the media, disdain for the Judiciary, and the humiliation of opposition leaders is the third step in a well-orchestrated pushback against devolution, whose success threatens to clip the powers vested in the centre. The performance of county governments and the spirit of devolution are threatened by those uneasy about an empowered population. DICTATORSHIP They know that as soon as the people stop worrying about bread and butter issues, they will start to demand transparency and accountability in running national affairs. They seek to negate the promises of devolution by frustrating its strongest advocates, causing doubt, and undermining grassroots leadership. Those of us who were old enough to see the extremes of the Nyayo (Daniel arap Moi) regime in the 1980s will remember the Nyayo House torture chambers in Nairobi, the imposition of unpopular leaders on a hapless populace, the monstrous corruption, and the near-total collapse of the economy. And to all other fellow Kenyans, I say, devolution is all that we have. If we cannot safeguard devolution, nothing will save us from those who have tasted untamed power of government. Mr Oparanya is the Governor of Kakamega County. governor@kakamega.go.ke  