There could either be counterfeit or fake condoms in the market. This suspicion has been raised by a three-day advertisement in the local dailies run by Population Services Kenya (PSK), which distributes Trust brand of condoms. In the half-page adverts hidden in the middle of newspaper pages, PSK has been cautioning shoppers to look out for the “true marks of Trust Studded” condoms. The organisation singled out one of its products, Trust Studded, warning people to look out for certain marks on the packets, to ensure they are buying authentic condoms. “With Trust Studded condoms, you get high quality, value condoms that you can rely on,” the PS Kenya advert reads, adding: “Look out for the marks of quality on our packs to ensure that you are purchasing authentic Trust packs. Don’t compromise.” STDsAccording to the advert, consumers should check the front face of a pack of Trust Studded to ensure that it has a triple tested icon on the bottom left side and a white stripe with pack content. The name “Studded” should also appear in bold at the centre of the pack. The pack’s spine, the PS Kenya advert went on to say, should bear content details and “only bear PS-Kenya contact details. Nothing more.” Efforts to reach the PS Kenya team were futile with the firm expected to release a formal statement today. Condoms are celebrated for the dual role of being both a contraceptive method and a barrier against sexually transmitted infections, but their success is tied to correct and consistent use. FAKE BRANDS However, faulty condoms can increase the chances of transmission of HIV and other STIs, as well as the likelihood of pregnancy. This is because they are perceived to be made of substandard material and could break or tear more easily. Unwary shoppers could easily fall for the fakes, if there are any in the market. Previously, counterfeiters have managed to copy well-known brands of condoms like Durex. In 2013, a huge international underground ring of counterfeit condom manufacturers was shutdown in China after almost five million condoms with fake brand names were found as they were about to be shipped out of China, reported ABC News.  