Students from various tertiary institutions in Embu County have accused local police of laxity and expressed disappointment that no suspect has been arrested following last week’s rape and assault of female students. Through their leaders, the students said security had not improved even after County Commissioner Esther Maina ordered regular foot patrols in areas where students reside. The students drawn from the University of Embu, Embu College, Chuka University, Walton School of Hospitality, Kenyatta University branch and Achievers’ College also called on the county government to erect street lights to reduce crime. ULTIMATUM Led by the University of Embu President Dancan Othuon, the students threatened to take the law into their hands if the police do not arrest those who tortured and gang-raped five college students last week. “The county security team should not push us to the wall because we can be messy. We have tried to be polite and humble but when young girls are raped and no arrest is made, we can’t let it pass,” said Mr Othuon. A gang of 10 men attacked a hostel and raped five students of Embu College and stole their phones, money and laptops. Their screams did not help despite the hostel being located less than 100 meters from the Embu Police Station. BOYCOTT UNSECURED HOUSES Mr Othuon said they will mobilise the students to stop renting unsecured houses since the hostel that the students were staying did not have security. “We will authorise our students to rent hostels that have a guard, caretaker, CCTV cameras, security alarm and lights,” he said. Walton School of Hospitality President Dorothy Wanja said most students are transferring to other institutions in safer counties and called on stakeholders to improve security to curb the cases. “We have contributed immensely to the economy of this county and if we feel insecure, we will go to other institutions in other counties,” she said. The students also called on the county government to put security lights along the roads that lead to their hostels to reduce muggings that have become common in the area.   Five students were gang raped and their valuables stolen.