The government will not allow the National Super Alliance (Nasa) to threaten the country’s stability, Deputy President William Ruto warned, dismissing the “swearing-in” of Raila Odinga as comical. In an apparent reference to the ceremony held at Uhuru Park on Tuesday, Mr Ruto said: “What you saw has no space in a country governed by President Uhuru Kenyatta. That will not happen and we will not allow the country to go in that direction.” UNITYThat came a day after police arrested Ruaraka MP Tom Kajwang’ for aiding the “swearing-in” of Nasa leader Raila Odinga as the “people’s president”. While commissioning the construction of the 23km Sh875 million Gatanga-Nyaga road in Murang’a, Mr Ruto said that the government will not be dragged into dirty politics. The DP said President Kenyatta will not watch as opposition leaders drive the country into violence but will work towards uniting the country. “Sisi hatutaki malumbano, vitimbi na hekaya za Abunuwas, tumewaachia hao (we will not be part of the opposition’s wrangles and drama but will focus on building roads and equipping hospitals),” Mr Ruto said. AGENDAHe further urged leaders to focus on why they were elected in the August 8 General Election and address the challenges that Kenyans face. “We should work together because we are a team and we were elected to address the challenges facing our people,” Mr Ruto said. “That is our primary and sole responsibility.” Mr Ruto said the President will continue with the development agenda of building schools, roads, hospitals and creating employment for the youth in line with the Jubilee manifesto. “We have a commitment to fulfil the promises that we made to Kenyans “We want to lay a firm foundation for the development and growth of the country.” INFIGHTINGHe warned Members of the County Assembly affiliated to Jubilee Party against engaging in wars as witnessed in Murang’a and other counties. Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu and his Murang’a colleague Mwangi wa Iria urged Nasa deputy leader Kalonzo Musyoka and his co-principals Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula to join the Jubilee government. Senate Deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki noted that the Tuesday event ended the Nasa principals’ political careers. Jubilee’s Deputy Chief Whip in the Senate, Mr Irungu Kang’ata, accused the opposition of planning the event to cause chaos and loss of lives. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria said the Nasa co-principals’ snub of the event was an indication of a split as his Kandara colleague Alice Wahome accused MPs of dividing the country. Led by Mathioya MP Peter Kimari, speakers pledged to rally central Kenya behind Mr Ruto in the 2022 polls.   Mr Odinga’s ODM MPs, and some allied to Mr Mudavadi’s Amani National Congress, escalated the condemnation.