A serving capital offender and three women all jailed for seven years for kidnapping a six-year-old girl from a city church have urged a judge to commute their sentence and free them. Raphael Nderitu, Monica Wangui, Anne Wambui and Anne Nyambura Thursday pleaded with Justice Luka Kimaru to consider freeing them as they have already served five years and seven months in prison. “We are parents and we really desire to be re-united with our children whom we need to look after,” the three women said in mitigation. MAVUNO CHURCH Mr Nderitu, whom the trial court was told was the mastermind of the kidnap and theft of the girl from Mavuno Church in Nairobi on September 30, 2012, pleaded with the judge to commute the prison term saying “we have almost completed the seven years prison term imposed on us”. But a State prosecutor opposed the plea by the four convicts. “Since they ascertain they are parents, they know the pain, trauma, anguish and emotional pain they subjected the parents of the girl they kidnapped from church (while she was) attending Sunday school. SERIOUS OFFENCE “The offence is very serious and calls for a deterrent sentence. Reject their request then order they complete the remaining prison term,” the prosecutor implored the judge. In her request for freedom, Nyambura said she is a mother of a 13-year-old girl whom she left under the care of her aged mother. “As I stand before you your lordship, I am a reformed person. I have been counselled and I am now ready to go back to the society and participate in nation building then bring up my 13-year-old daughter,” she pleaded. LEARNT THE HARD WAY She also confessed that she has learnt the hard way that “crime does not pay at all. It is loss all through.” On her part Wambui disclosed that she is a mother of two and would like to join her family after staying away for five years and seven months. She shed tears as she recounted how she found herself trapped in the web of crime but said she has since reformed. “I am fully reformed and I am really remorseful. I repent before God and this court and vow never to engage in crime again,” Wambui. The third woman, Wangui, prayed to have her term commuted for her to re-unite with her children and relatives. She regretted her participation in the crime and asked the judge to “show mercy on her and exercise his discretion in her favour.”  