When I read in the papers that the theme of the 30th Africa Union summit was about eradicating corruption on the continent, I had to suppress a guffaw and settle for a quiet chuckle. It occurred to me that someone at the apex pan-African body has a peerless sense of humour — to host a conference of continental leaders around such a theme. But since I am not privy to what went down in Addis Ababa — the nitty-gritty of the talks — all I can say is this: Maybe something good will come of it. As themes go, “Winning the fight against corruption: A sustainable path to Africa’s transformation” sounds quite reasonable. PERPETRATORS It is a tacit admission that the continent has been bogged down by monumental corruption, and a call to arms to wage war on the destructive vice that has for too long been gnawing at the roots of Africa’s development agenda with great avidity. It therefore seems that the summit was more about wishful thinking than reality, and those who attended it were at once the right people — they are the continent’s leaders who should drive the anti-corruption agenda — and the wrong people because half of them are the major perpetrators while the other half have been hopelessly ensnared in its tentacles. But what is corruption? The classic definition is that it is abuse of public resources for personal gain. It is usually perpetrated by the powerful against the poor, but it also works the other way, for those who offer bribes to get out of legal scrapes or to access a public service are also engaging in corruption, mainly of the petty kind. In short, those who solicit bribes and those who offer bribes are equally complicit. PETTY CORRUPTIONThis continent is synonymous with corruption of both kinds. Our dear Africa is always at the top of every index computed by Transparency International and other bodies of that ilk, regardless of whether it is petty, grand or political. Most Africans are familiar with the first because it is closer to them. When you bribe a policeman to look the other way, a head teacher to admit your child, or a government clerk to locate your “missing” file, you are no better than those who seek 10 per cent for every tender given. These latter engage in grand corruption, and the only difference is in the magnitude. GOVERNANCE In many African countries, grand corruption has not only become a way of life, it even has its own networks — the so-called cartels — and rules of engagement. As for political corruption, it is the one most people are unfamiliar with because it is on a policy level. The perpetrators, some of who, unfortunately, were among those who graced the AU summit, manipulate policies, capture institutions and change rules of procurement in order to personally benefit from the distortion that results. In other words, such people who are usually in high political office abuse their positions by making decisions that will only favour themselves, their families and cronies. PLUNDER Others use the proceeds of corruption to further their goals by funding the political parties they own. That is the category in which mega corruption deals like Goldenberg, Anglo Leasing and NYS scams fall in Kenya’s circumstances. Africa pays heavily due to corruption. The problem is that it is usually the poor who bear the brunt through the denial of services because national resources, which would have made life a lot more bearable, are depleted, misdirected, or stolen. It explains why there has always been a marked preference for capital-intensive projects by rent-seekers, instead of less grandiose projects like hospitals, schools and roads, from which there is little chance to eat with a big spoon. FUNDSIt is estimated that the continent loses at least $100 million every year to corruption networks through projects that have no immediate value for the poor. We are talking about Sh10 trillion here, money which is enough to ensure we never have to rely on outside donors. This is how the chairman of the AU commission, Mr Moussa Faki Mahamat, sums up the issue: “Corruption kills. Corruption is an endemic that affects people’s daily lives, from poorly built roads to unequal access to health care and medicine, to crime and violence in our communities and across borders, to political choices distorted by money and greed among other societal ills”. What is there to add to this? andrewngwiri@gmail.com  