Sony Sugar defender Joseph Omweri’s own goal in the 36th minute proved the difference as debutants Wazito beat the sugar millers 1-0 in their opening match of the Kenyan Premier League played at Camp Toyoyo grounds, Nairobi, on Saturday. But newly-recruited Ulinzi Stars coach Dunstan Nyaudo had no such problems against Zoo Kericho, the soldiers beating Zoo Kericho 4-2 at Afraha Stadium in Nakuru. At Camp Toyoyo, Wazito had camped in the sugar millers’ box and from a corner kick, Erick Odhiambo shot the ball towards the goal, and Omweri home while attempting to deal with the danger. The 2006 champions were reduced to 10 men in the 83rd minute after defender Benard Omondi was sent off for a reckless tackle on Joe Waithira. “I congratulate the boys. Getting off to a good start against a seasoned team like Sony Sugar is good. They were really a hard nut to crack but my boys stepped up well, now we rest and prepare for next game,” an excited Wazito coach Frank Ouna said after the match. He added: “Our target is to survive and every three points will take us closer to the magical 40 points we aim for this season.” His opposing number Salim Babu rued missed chances, blaming the defeat on poor officiating. “We got good chances in both halves that we could have converted but these went begging. However, there were key decisions the referee failed to make in the match. We were denied two penalties that would have counted. Sending Omondi off wasn’t justified either,” Babu, whose team plays Ulinzi Stars next weekend, said. Ouna lined up experienced Mark Odhiambo and Emmanuel Tienan at the back, while Pistone Mutamba and Kennedy Ayako led the front line. Meanwhile, Ulinzi Stars coach Nyaudo started his job as the head coach on a winning note, guiding the soldiers to beat Zoo Kericho 4-2 at Afraha Stadium. Nyaudo who is a former international striker and past Ulinzi Stars player took over from  former coach Benjamin Nyangweso who has been redeployed to the military. The soldiers started on a high note and barely two minutes into the game,  Enosh Ochieng’ opened the floodgates with a powerful volley inside the danger zone past goal keeper Vincent Misikhu. Ulinzi stepped up the pressure for the second goal and in the 13th minute, Cliff Kasuti doubled the lead before Zoo Kericho reduced the arrears in the 34th minute through Nicholas Kirui. On resumption, the Sammy Okoth-coached Zoo Kericho came forcefully into the game and in the 60th minute their efforts were rewarded when Mike Madonya beat  Ulinzi custodian Timothy Odhiambo with low shot. Ulinzi again scored in the 68th minute when former Nzoia striker Masuta Masika put the ball beyond the reach of goalkeeper Misikhu. “Its good for me winning the opening match particularly after losing four key players,” said Nyaudo. “Ulinzi didn’t have an upper hand in the match but they made good use of their chances and that made the difference,” said Okoth.   AFC Leopards surrendered a first half lead to settle for a 1-1 draw with Posta Rangers.