The security of health care facilities is very complex, considering the nature of threats associated with their functions. Unlike other businesses where the threat focuses on the loss of tangible things such as money, and equipment, medical facilities are sensitive as threats might revolve around the physical set-up and reputation. A premier medical institution could easily lose its credibility and be pushed out of business. The recent rape allegations at the Kenyatta National Hospital in Nairobi are a good example. The hospital is now grappling with face-saving measures because its reputation is at a crossroads. PROPER PLANThe claims sparked concern over the security of health facilities. We have always confined ourselves to the traditional way of securing health institutions. The focus is on “traditional security methods”. We believe that once we have fenced off a health facility and provided guards (mostly poorly trained youth) with cameras at the main gate, we are done. Health facilities require a more complex security layout. This must be people-friendly and not intimidating, as you are dealing with patients and visitors, who are full of anxiety and apprehension over their loved ones. RISKS Secondly, the security layout in health facilities must be driven by a professional security risk assessment. The security risks are different from those in other types of businesses. They include theft of high-value medicines, risk of illegal organs harvest, sabotage of high-value equipment, collusion to swap babies during delivery, theft of new-born babies, deliberate or inadvertent contamination due to poor visitor control, assault of medical staff by violent patients, rape and even illegal procedures such as abortion and female genital mutilation. The security set-up at a health facility requires diverse expertise. INTEGRATION A security consultant should take a leading role in risk assessment, with the involvement of core medical staff such as doctors and nurses, and the hospital administration and finance section for proper budgeting. This is lacking in most of our medical facilities. The security layout of medical facilities should focus on monitoring and effective response to threats. An integrated security system and general awareness of a cross section of staff is essential. SECURITY GUARDS There is a need to move away from the traditional deployment of guards at the gate, reception and lifts. We can have well-trained guards dressed in uniforms that blend with the medical facilities. Instead of having the trademark guards’ uniforms, they can wear suits and skirts so that they are not seen as enforcers of security with their no-nonsense faces, but a part of the team that is there to treat patients, and give them hope. We also need to customise security to blend with our cultures. In Africa, relatives and friends visit their patients more frequently than the Europeans do. PATIENTS' SAFETY We have to be flexible with visiting hours, and how relatives interact with patients without compromising the safety of patients. This is a serious challenge. For instance, it is difficult to tell the relative of a patient not to bring food from outside over the risk of contamination. Relatives will always bring food and if you become too strict, they will sneak it in. A middle line is needed to satisfy both parties. On feeding hours for new-born babies, a challenge may arise as some customs have specific times driven by myths and rituals. When planning the security of a medical facility, you need to factor in culture, which may look awkward but you can’t ignore it. Health facilities need proper security layouts. With emerging threats, an overhaul of security of medical facilities is overdue. The Kenyatta Hospital allegations might just be a tip of the iceberg and a vital lesson. Mr Mbarak is a retired military officer and a certified security management professional. bartaza16@yahoo.com  