The Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) Garissa branch has proposed a raft of measures to be undertaken with a view to ending attacks on teachers in North Eastern region. Speaking to Nation, Garissa Knut Secretary-General Abdirizak Hussein said among proposals they have is an appeal to President Uhuru Kenyatta to issue a decree revising entry grade to teachers’ colleges among the locals to a C-. The Garissa Knut officials said the President should give such directive since attacks on teachers in the region are a disaster to education. Mr Hussein said they have also suggested that the Teachers Services Commission (TSC) allows students who have finished high school to work as untrained teachers as they train on a school-based programme. These teachers, he said, should be posted to border schools. TRANSFERS The vocal teachers’ union boss also said primary school pupils from Class 6, 7 and 8 in border schools should be transferred with their non-local teachers to main towns to boost boarding schools. "Untrained teachers should be allowed to teach from Standard one to Five and during holidays they pursue their 3-year P1 training at Garissa Teachers College and upon completion the TSC can absorb and post them to border areas," he noted. The Knut official at the same time demanded that the government enhances security in the schools, adding that police reservists should be used to guard the schools and teachers. He said the government should immediately employ and post 88 local teachers expected to graduate this year from Garissa Teachers College. He called on the national and county governments to work out a formula where these teachers can be trained and paid at their expense. WAJIR ATTACK This comes just days after two teachers were killed in Wajir attack. Meanwhile the Knut boss in Garissa said the County is facing an acute shortage of teachers where 13 schools face closure. These include Bulla Golol, Fafi, Dekaharja, Alinjugur, Amuma, Kulan, Maleilei 1 and 2 and Damajaley primary schools. In Primary schools, 790 teachers are required to fill the gap in 195 schools while 33 secondary schools in the entire county still require 214 teachers. His sentiments were echoed by Livestock Marketing Council chairman Dubat Amey who said the county government should come up with long-term solutions where the three governors of Garissa, Wajir and Mandera should convene an immediate leaders’ conference to discuss problem facing the education sector in the region. He said the county government should also give some incentives to teachers to boost their morale.   Al-Shabaab attacked a Wajir school and killed two teachers on February 16.