The concept of a digital customs is anchored on the Kenya Revenue Authority’s belief that technology holds the key to the successful tax administration. The KRA has prioritised the development of technology solutions for all aspects of business, including front and back office operations. First, the long-awaited Integrated Customs Management System (iCMS) is being rolled out. To date, we have launched a system for air cargo operations and the management of air passenger declarations. Coverage of marine cargo operations should also be completed soon. SIMBA SYSTEM REPLACED The iCMS replaces the 12-year-old Simba system with key innovations, including automated valuation benchmarking, automated release of green-channel cargo, importer validation and declaration, and linkage with iTax. The automated valuation-benchmarking feature enables customs to use in-built values to interrogate suspect declarations. This will substantially address the problem of cargo undervaluation, which is a major source of revenue leakage. In future, cargo for taxpayers who hold Authorised Economic Operator (AEO) status shall be system-released once the pre-determined in-built controls are validated. This feature will add value to the AEO designation, besides drastically cutting down on clearance time. In the past, importers did not have an opportunity to validate declarations done by clearing agents before their submission to customs. This lapse has enabled fraud, where importers are duped into paying money in excess of what KRA receives. DECLARATIONS The new importer declaration and validation feature will prevent fraud by enabling taxpayers to view declarations before they reach customs. The iCMS also comes with a two-way iTax integration that enables data sharing on imports to enable follow-ups on domestic tax declarations. Those who fail to make tax declarations will automatically be locked out. The same will apply for exporters. Other key features, include the auto-population of customs declarations from shipping data, the creation of an online virtual auction that enables any Kenyan to bid at customs auctions and the provision of an automated tariff facility that empowers any person to make a customs declaration. Soon, Kenyans will be able to make customs declarations without having to depend on clearing agents. The second key initiative is the scanner integration project, whose objective is to enable customs to take electronic control over cargo scanning. This has enabled customs headquarters in Nairobi to supervise, and make decisions on scanning. AVOID PHYSICAL CONTACT First, we will address the challenge of avoiding physical contact between image analysts and cargo owners, which fuels corruption. Secondly, we will develop centralised expertise in image analysis and decision-making. Thirdly, we shall establish effective control over scanning. The Regional Electronic Cargo Tracking System (RECTS) launched in March last year has given customs complete visibility over transit cargo, not just within Kenya, but also across the entire Northern Corridor into Democratic Republic of Congo. This capability to monitor cargo has blocked diversion and improved transit times by eliminating driver-initiated delays. The RECTS has been extended to the tracking of sensitive exports, especially tobacco and spirits that have also been the target of dumping. Today, the key goal is to ensure 100 per cent coverage for all transit cargo. The KRA has in the past one year built a data centre to serve it for the next five years. These programmes are meant to provide KRA with electronic control over all its operations, enabling better resource mobilisation and public service delivery.  Mr Njiraini is the commissioner-general of the Kenya Revenue Authority. John.Njiraini@kra.go.ke  