Some counties in Western region are still unsure whether to compel former members of County Assemblies to return the iPads they were given while they served their terms. In Kisumu, the subject has created confusion on whether the current MCAs should use previous gadgets or the county should buy new iPads at a cost of Sh5 million. Ward reps recently clashed with the Clerk of the Assembly Ben Opiyo over the new devices. The MCAs claimed that a final resolution on whether to buy new gadgets was yet to be made even though the clerk, who is the official accounting officer, maintained that there was a budget for the same. NEW GADGETSMr Opiyo noted that the county would procure new gadgets for the current members and allow the former MCAs to retain their gadgets. The devices are to help them access reports, house business calendar, standing orders and order papers as well as internet to undertake other county activities. Kolwa Central MCA George Olwal, who is also the ICT committee chair, said the idea of the new devices had not been finalised. “We are still deliberating on the matter and the estimated cost of the gadgets, and the specifications are yet to be settled on,” he said. However, residents questioned the decision to procure new gadgets, saying the move would burden taxpayers more. They said the former ward reps should have been told to return the 49 gadgets. So far, only four have returned the gadgets. PROCUREMENTIn Vihiga, MCAs who served in the previous assembly returned five faulty tablets at the expiry of their term. Only 34 out of the 39 gadgets that were distributed to the ward reps in 2015 were in good condition, assembly Clerk Ambaka Kilinga said. The 34, Mr Kilinga said, have already been distributed to the current MCAs. The assembly has 36 MCAs. This leaves out four MCAs who will have to wait before they are issued with the gadgets. Mr Kilinga said the assembly is in the process of procuring four new tablets to address the deficit. The gadgets were procured in 2015 at a cost of Sh2.5 million following approval by the Budget and Appropriations Committee  