A section of opposition MPs wants the US ambassador to Kenya  recalled for what they termed exhibiting extreme bias when discharging his duties. Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi, who spoke on Monday on behalf of Nasa legislators said a draft petition is being prepared to be presented to the relevant committee of the US Senate as a formal protest note over Mr Robert Godec’s behaviour. “More like-minded MPs and I will petition the US government using the relevant and official channels to raise our concerns over this grave matter,” he said. “Mr Godec’s continued stay in the country is injurious to the long-term relationship between the people of Kenya and the US,” Mr Wandayi, who is also the secretary for political affairs in ODM, added. Though Mr Wandayi noted that Nasa had no issue with President Donald Trump’s administration, he accused Mr Godec of reducing himself as the US envoy to “only a section of Kenya”. He added that the vast majority of Kenyans have no confidence in him. “We are aware that he seems to have profound vendetta against Nasa leader Raila Odinga after the last general election. This was confirmed on January 30, when Mr Godec convinced the other Nasa principals to isolate Mr Odinga as he took “oath” as the people’s president,” said the MP. “He has not been objective as required in representing Kenya’s views to his country. His views have been highly skewed and partisan. He is doing diplomacy for a few.” Last month, Mr Godec called on the opposition to abandon Mr Odinga’s “swearing-in” plan, saying the move would not augur well with the country’s security situation.  In his diplomacy efforts, he met Nasa co-principals Musalia Mudavadi, Kalonzo Musyoka, Moses Wetang’ula, Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka, among other leaders. But Mr Wandayi said; “His pretentious brokering for dialogue could not be taken seriously. He lost the moral authority to be a neutral arbiter.” On the US criticising Mr Odinga after the ‘oath’, Mr Wandayi said the Trump administration’s position on Kenya could have been triggered by misinformation.  “The feeling we have is that the administration has not been given the true account of the situation in Kenya right from the campaign period to elections and beyond. The statements they are issuing could be based on misinformation,” he said.   They call for respect of the Kenyan Constitution and rule of law.