The Busia law courts has ordered that all court proceedings scheduled for Monday be delayed to allow the delivery of judgment in an election petition against Governor Sospeter Ojaamong. Normal court sittings begin at 9am but all proceedings have been pushed to 10.30am, according to a notice. But the governor’s case will be proceed at 9am. INTEREST The notice from the office of the Deputy Registrar and Magistrate Martha Nanzushi was copied to litigants, office of the Director of Public Prosecutions, advocates, and Busia’s Korinda Prison. “Take notice that the High Court No 1 is scheduled to deliver judgment in election Petition No4 of 2017 on 12th February 2018. “Due to the interest the case generates in the county and subject to the space in court, all other sittings shall start at 10.30am to allow for delivery of the same without interference to the other court processes by members of the public who are interested in the outcome,” read the notice. Justice Nanzushi also directed the GK prison to bring in remandees at 10.30am. The petition was filed by Nambale voter Peter Odima and the judgment will be delivered by trial Judge Kiarie Waweru. GRAFT ALLEGATIONS Meanwhile, a section of Busia residents have presented a petition to Chief Justice David Maraga, urging to him to investigate corruption and bribery allegations in local courts. Led by Ali Mohammed Omar and Betty Anyango, the residents urged the CJ to intervene and ensure integrity prevails. In addition, they want an independent panel to investigate Judge Waweru and Magistrate Nanzushi, who presided over the said petitions. Three petitions against MPs were dismissed by the High Court and cases against nine MCAs were thrown out by the Magistrate’s Court after petitioners failed to prove their cases. “We are concerned that the Busia Judicial system is infiltrated by external forces and well-known senior officials in the county government who have denied residents a right to judicial justice,” the petition said. PETITIONS The petitioners said they would hold peaceful demonstrations if their requests were not granted. “We will organise peaceful demonstrations for five days a week and also lead a delegation of 700 to Maraga’s office within 14 days after the filing of this petition. “Respondents in all these petitions have been preparing for victory and celebration parties a day prior to judgment as was evident in case of petition No 01/2017, 03/2017, 06/2017 and 09/2017. Remarks by the sitting Governor recently that a petition challenging his victory will be dismissed is worrying,” said Ms Anyango. Justice Waweru last week dismissed a petition filed by voter Mercy Mola challenging the election of Budalang’i MP Raphael Wanjala and another filed by former Teso South MP Mary Emaase challenging the election of Geoffrey Omuse. In all the cases, the judges ruled there was insufficient evidence to support the petitions.  