Observers are interpreting the recent nomination by President Uhuru Kenyatta of veteran Turkana politician John Munyes as the Cabinet Secretary for Petroleum and Mining in the context of the political supremacy battles between him and Governor Josephat Nanok. Highly popular, Mr Nanok has pitched on the right side of a new wave of Turkana nationalism that is sweeping through the land, and which is based on a widely held perception and that Nairobi-based elites want to deny the community its rightful share of revenues from oil. The theory is that Mr Munyes is being propelled to high office by the Nairobi elites in the hope that his appointment will not only address the grievances around perceived marginalisation of the community in the oil revenue stakes, but will also elevate the presumptive Cabinet secretary to a position where he can check any moves by the governor. SUPREMACY BATTLES Yet in the scale of interests, the parochial supremacy battles between the governor and Mr Munyes are a minor factor. What matters now is the vested interests and the calculations of Nairobi power players and their partners in London, France, and Canada as the parties enter the decisive stages of starting to build a crude oil pipeline to Lamu. His appointment must be seen in the context of the battles for control of the oil exports business by powerful local and international interests. We are at a very critical stage in terms of the transition to being exporters of crude oil. Yet the decisions, which we must make urgently as we angle to get maximum revenues from the windfall, are not being discussed and debated publicly. Apparently, the government and its joint partners, namely Tullow Oil, Mersk (Total) and Africa Oil, have retained the services of French investment banker Societe Generale to give advice on decisions that have to be made and the next steps to be taken. I-by-happenstance recently came across a document prepared by the advisers outlining the way forward. The most important decision by them is that the 821km pipeline that will be transporting crude from Lokichar to Lamu will be jointly and equally owned by the government, Tullow Africa Oil and Mersk (Total). INVESTMENT Thus, both the oil wells and pipeline, will be a single consolidated asset. Secondly, the plan is that there will be no investment in storage facilities. Crude oil will be pumped from Lokichar into a mothership - also owned by the joint venture - that will be waiting at the Lamu Port. Thirdly, there will be no refinery. Fourthly - unlike other oil exporting countries - Kenya will not have its own national oil corporation to look after our own interests in the joint venture. Finally, Kenya, unlike other oil exporters, will not involve itself in oil trading. This begs several questions: Why are important decisions touching on national interest not being debated publicly? Why do I get the feeling that we are giving away too much to these international firms? Why shouldn’t the government be a dominant shareholder in the joint venture company? Clearly, we are going into the oil exporting business without thinking about value addition. The fact that we are not thinking about building a refinery is a major omission. INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK We are yet to make up our minds on setting up a proper institutional framework for ownership and for managing oil exploration, transportation and exports. In many oil producing countries, this role is played by national oil corporations. Although we have had our National Oil Corporation (NOCK) for many years, we have agreed not to involve it in the new arrangements. Even the Kenya Pipeline Company has been side-lined. So, who will own the shares in the joint venture company on behalf of the government? Under the plan, ownership rights will sit with the Ministry of Petroleum and Mining. Since when did we start allowing ministries to own shares directly in joint ventures? It is a perfect environment for local elites to acquire shares in the joint venture company on behalf of shadowy cartels. Have we forgotten about Mobitelea? WEALTH FUND Then there is the vexed issue of the creation of a sovereign wealth fund. Why aren’t we talking about it? Several years ago, the Presidential Task Force on Parastatal Reform suggested that we establish a sovereign wealth fund. It was swept under the carpet. Nigeria only recently established a sovereign wealth fund. Ghana was widely applauded for fast-tracking production of oil within five years of discovery. They did not have a sovereign wealth fund and allowed their National Treasury to deplete oil revenues at will. They soon fell into distress and had to go for an IMF bailout. Major national interests are at stake as we prepare to become an oil exporter.  jaindikisero@gmail.com  