The widow of slain Muslim cleric Aboud Rogo, Hania Sagar, has been sentenced to ten years in prison by a court in Mombasa. In a 125-page judgement, the magistrate said was in constant communication with three slain terrorists who attacked Central police station on September 11, 2016. Tasnim Yakub, Ramla Abdirahman Hussein and Maimuna Abdirahman were killed after a foiled attack at the police station. JUSTICE Senior principal magistrate Diana Mochache said that the judiciary had the crucial role of protecting the citizens and safeguarding property. was one of the agencies in the criminal justice, whose role is to protect the public and safeguard property. “Even though the accused is a first offender, the offence is serious. Had the police not acted swiftly, the slain terrorists could have actualised their intentions and lead to mass killings,” she said. She said considering the offences Sagar was facing, the court was inclined to pass a custodial sentence to act as a warning to would-be offenders. Sagar, who had been charged with failing to disclose information on a terrorist who attacked a police station, can appeal the sentence within 14 days. According to the charge sheet, despite knowing Yakub, who was the mastermind of the foiled terror attack, Sagar failed to disclose the information. She had denied committing the offence on September 5 in Kanamai, Kilifi County. Sagar, through her lawyer Mureithi Mbugua, said she will appeal the sentence. “The accused person is aggrieved both by the conclusion of the judgment and  the sentence. We would wish to exercise a right of appeal in court and we would be grateful if this court would supply us with the record.” said Mr Muriithi. The magistrate told the court that the sentence and judgment will be ready on February 22 for their perusal. In her judgment, Ms Mochache said despite Sagar not being at the Central police station on the day of attack, all the wrongful acts that were done by Yakub and the other two slain girls were attributable to her. “I find the prosecution case, although based on circumstantial evidence, proved beyond reasonable doubt. I accordingly find the accused guilty of the offence of conspiracy to commit a felony,” she said. She had been charged together with Ms Luul Ali Tahli, Ms Nasteho Ali Tahli and Ms Zamzam Abdallahi who  were later freed due lack of evidence. In their consolidated charge sheet, the four were accused of conspiring with three women – Yakub, Hussein and Abdirahman – to attack the police station on September 11, 2016. Sagar was arrested at her home in Kikambala by anti-terror police officers and later charged. Senior assistant Director of Public Prosecutions Alexander Muteti had told the court there were financial transactions between the two and that Sagar was under investigations for funding terrorism.   The son was incensed after photographers took pictures of his mother.