The Fifa World Cup hogged all attention in the past month and we witnessed the wonders of organisation and administration of football. The heights that Russia 2018 has scaled put many countries to shame. It has set a new level that ought to make things even better for football. The Video Assistant Referee (VAR) technology shall not be used soon in Kenya - perhaps never shall it be used - since it requires a lot of brain and organisation that will make us only laugh at ourselves. That Russia outing attracted even the unspeakable of our country to go there and shame us. They went allegedly to learn just how they can help organise future big tournaments in our country. Of course that is quite some comedy that we should act and sell to the world if only the father of anti-cinema called Ezekiel would ever allow it. The unspeakable used tax-payers money for that futility and we hope they had some fun. While all that was going on, the local scene was also imploding and releasing a lot of smoke. The most successful club in Kenya, Gor Mahia, was undergoing unwarranted strain that saw them get into the wrong books of Cecafa. The club officials were at each other’s throats and used the players to show their might. For a club that is in the height of one of its best seasons, it was scary to hear the talk about strikes and go-slows from the players. Funny enough, their don, Mr Rachier, had to be smoked out from the Russian summer to come back home and try and cool things down. There are many fans who took to social media to castigate the players over the issue. The silly refrain that Gor Mahia is bigger that any player was repeated too many times that we lost count. What they however did not say is why the ‘big’ club just cannot pay their players promptly; why in its grandeur can it not pay the requisite allowances in time; just why is it led by such inept and scary officials? Very few people had the temerity to point these issues out. They did not want and we do not care about their motives. A big club must act its age and size for it to be run smoothly. Clubs must have players and officials whose mandate is the betterment of the club. If we shall only have pirates seeking self gain, then we shall only be a puny club with a glittering past history but with a shaky future. It is a pity that the Italian club, Bari is going under after a century of existence due to mismanagement. If such a club can just die out without an explosion but a whimper; if Bari cannot exist because of collective folly, what can happen to a club that is only half a century old? Things must change and it is our sincere hope that the officials saw the resurgence of K’Ogalo when they met Yanga just five days ago! That shows you the fact that if things go smooth, only good shall come out of it!   I was at the stadium as K'Ogalo showed Yanga who is boss.