The Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) has accused MPs allied to Deputy President William Ruto of diverting Kenyans’ attention from current purge against corruption with their latest claim that opposition leader Raila Odinga is behind the Mau Forest evictions. National Assembly Minority Leader John Mbadi said the Jubilee MPs are feeling the heat of corruption investigations and have resorted to diverting the attention of Kenyans with their latest claims against Mr Odinga. "It is clear that Mr Murkomen and other MPs allied to DP Ruto are feeling the heat of various investigations on corruption instituted by the President," said Mr Mbadi. EVICTIONS On Thursday while addressing hundreds of settlers evicted from the Maasai Mau section of the forest, Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen said the President and his deputy were not aware of the evictions and claimed the opposition leader had a hand in it. Mr Murkomen was accompanied by Bomet Senator Christopher Lang'at, MPs Johana Ng'eno (EmuruaDikirr), Ronald Tonui (Bomet Central), Beatrice Kones (Bomet East), Nelson Koech (Belgut), Japhet Kiptergech (Buret), woman reps Lis Chelule (Nakuru) and Joyce Korir(Bomet). LIFESTYLE AUDIT Speaking to Nation, Mr Mbadi claimed the Jubilee MPs have not welcomed the lifestyle audit on all government employees ordered by the President. "We know that the issue of lifestyle audit is not welcome by the MPs. But Kenyans cannot be fooled because they used the same lie of eviction against Raila sometimes back," said Mr Mbadi. The ODM chairman told the MPs to face President Kenyatta over their discomfort with the newly-found unity between him and Mr Odinga. "Why can't they tell the President that they are not happy with his unity with Mr Odinga instead of beating about the bush?" asked Mr Mbadi. According to Mr Mbadi, the purge on corrupt officials in the government, especially in Kenya Power, could be one of the reasons evoking anger among the Jubilee MPs.   Leaders claim it is part of plan to scuttle Jubilee Party’s 2022 succession politics.