For President Uhuru Kenyatta’s final term, focus will be on the Big Four Agenda. But for Kenyans, interest will be on how corruption cartels will line up to take the billions away. Going by the budget figures presented by National Treasury Cabinet Secretary, Henry Rotich, it is quite clear that the Big Four plan will account for a sizeable portion of public expenditure going forward. But given mounting concern over rampant corruption in the public sector, Kenyans will have to be very vigilant in tracking how cash earmarked for the Big Four projects is spent by the relevant agencies. OVERSIGHT ROLE Parliament and other institutions tasked with protecting public funds will also have to step up their oversight role to ensure money is not lost through graft and other malpractices. Mr Rotich’s budget was aptly themed Creating Jobs, Transforming Lives and Sharing Prosperity and was in line with the government’s agenda on food security, manufacturing, affordable housing and universal healthcare. INFRASTRUCTURE Previous budgets and government spending programmes have been heavy on infrastructure (roads, energy, railways, airports and ports) perhaps owing to the huge infrastructure deficit the country faced in the past. However, with the Big Four there is an obvious shift from over-emphasis on the “hardware” of economic growth to creating the right, “software” directly impacting the social and economic wellbeing of the ordinary citizen. Therefore, projects skewed to food production, job creation through manufacturing, as well as affordable housing and healthcare, have been prioritised in the State spending plan. POVERTY The four core pillars are critical to addressing poverty, inequality and unemployment – factors widely seen as exacerbating the country’s political and social fissures and undermining economic growth. The trickle-down effect of the Big Four will reflect in reduced cost of living, enhanced access to health care, more jobs for youth and decent shelter for all. But this can all come to zero if we do not tame the dragon of corruption. Again, realising these lofty goals needs heavy funding. Each pillar has clear deliverables and enabling projects, some of which require billions of shillings to implement. A quick review of this year’s Budget under each pillar reveals a government keen on ensuring the Big Four priority projects are properly resourced and funded. FOOD SECURITY For instance, under food security, the main goal is reducing the cost of food by converting 700,000 acres of land into crop production while boosting smallholder productivity. To this end, Sh8.5 billion has been allocated to irrigation projects, Sh4.3 billion to subsidised fertilizer and Sh1.4 billion to strategic food reserves. Another Sh1.4 billion will go to mechanising agriculture and diversifying crop production. To safeguard the Big Four gains and thus improve the welfare of all Kenyans, the government must not relent in the ongoing war on corruption. There is talk of cartels angling to reap from lucrative projects linked to the Big Four.  Mr Choto is a lawyer and public affairs specialist. kingorichoto@gmail.com  