Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi on Friday said Coast leaders are working with President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto on development only. This, he said, followed the March 9 handshake between President Kenyatta and opposition leader Raila Odinga. Addressing parents and teachers during a constituency Education Day at Ganze Secondary School, the governor said Coast leaders were currently engaged in deep consultations for the 2022 General Election. "It is our party leader Raila Odinga who started it by shaking hands with President Kenyatta. That opened our arms to receive both the President and his deputy. It is all due to the handshake. When it comes to politics, this region will make its own independent decision of fielding a presidential candidate. That is the basis of the ongoing consultations we are currently having," he said. DEVELOPMENT Mr Kingi said accompanying national leaders who tour the region is purely pegged on development and it has nothing to do with politics. The governor said had they been partners in the government, they would have questioned some political moves taken like the handshake. "The handshake happened and because we have no say as we are not partners we have to live with it. That is why we want to change this from today hence-forth," Mr Kingi said. "Do you want us to be partners in the next government or you want us to remain in the cold as it has been the norm?" Mr Kingi asked. CHART OWN PATH MPs Owen Baya (Kilifi North), Ken Chonga (Kilifi South), Teddy Mwambire (Ganze), Michael Kingi (Magarini) and Getrude Mbeyu (woman rep) said they will chart their own political path as leaders. "We want to be in the next government as partners and not guests. We want to have a say in the coast resources and that will only be achieved if we are partners in government," said Mr Baya. There has been heightened political realignment at the coast since the political truce between President Kenyatta and Mr Odinga, with presidential aspirants wanting to eat into ODM's strong support at the coast. Mr Ruto has been in the region eight times since March. Opposition MPs have been flocking into the DP’s events with some backing him for the top seat. Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi and Kanu boss Gideon Moi are also eyeing the Coast vote.  