IN MOSCOW Whatever the outcome of Sunday’s final match between Croatia and France, one player is certain to miss out on a World Cup medal. Inter Milan striker Nikola Kalinic is certain to feel the ignominy of his action in his team’s first Group ‘D’ match on June 16 at Kaliningrad Arena when he refused to come on as a substitute. With his team 2-0 ahead against Nigeria, Kalinic was called upon by coach Zlatko Dalic to come on as a substitute in their first Group ‘D’ match at Kaliningrad on June 16 and instead said he had a had a back problem, prompting Dalic to introduce Schalke FC forward Marko Pjaca for Mario Mandzukic instead. After Croatia’s game against Nigeria, Dalic sent Kalinic back home from Croatia’s training camp, and that means should Croatia win Sunday’s final, the striker is sure to miss the winners’ medal. Should Croatia finish second to France, he will miss the runners-up medal. Dalic said the striker had refused to come on in the game. “During the Nigeria encounter, Kalinic was warming up and was supposed to come on in the second half. However, he then stated that he wasn’t ready to come on due to a back issue,” Dalic said. “The same thing happened during the Brazil friendly in England, as well as before the practice session on Sunday. Dalic, 51, added: “I have calmly accepted that, and since I need my players fit and ready to play, I have made this decision.” Coach Dalic then sent the Italy-based striker from the team to return home. The 30-year-old, who becomes the first player to be sent home from the World Cup due to disciplinary problems, will watch the final from his native Croatia. After Wednesday’s 2-1 win over England in the semi-finals, coach Dalic expressed his desire to perform better than third-place finish in 1998 tournament held in France. “Our team lost to France in 1998 and finished third. That loss will inspire us to do well in the final,” he said. Interestingly, Croatia’s neighbours in the former Yugoslavia will certainly be backing the side in the final. Croatia have certainly done better than their Bosnian or Serb brothers in international football since the breakup of Yugoslavia, that never reached a World Cup final. If one man embodies football and the dream of a multi-cultural Yugoslavia, it is Ivica Osim, the coach of the last Yugoslavia team before the country violently broke apart. He was in charge of a superb team at the 1990 World Cup in Italy that was knocked out at the quarter-final stage in a penalty shootout by Diego Maradona’s Argentina. When Serb forces began bombing the city, Osim, barely holding back the tears, told Serb journalists that he hoped they would remember “that I come from Sarajevo”.   Russia 2018 belongs to Modric.