Neighbours, relatives and friends of Ms Irene Jepchumba Boitt, the Nakuru lecturer believed to have been killed have described her as a warm-hearted, intelligent and bright. Mr Gideon Toroitich, Ms Jepchumba’s uncle, said she was an easy-going and amiable person. “Jepchumba was a reliable girl, intelligent and a staunch Christian who attended church at the African Inland Gospel church in Nakuru Town. Personally l have lost a friend. May she rest in peace,” said Mr Toroitich. MOLO RIVER The body of Ms Jepchumba, a lecturer at the Rift Valley Institute of Science and Technology in Nakuru, was retrieved from the Molo River a week ago. Neighbours who found the body said it was half-naked. Ms Jepchumba was the first born in a family of two. Her father, Mr Roichard Boitt, said she a hardworking and humble daughter. “Death has robbed me of a great, industrious, ambitious, humble and hardworking friend and daughter. I was really heartbroken by the news of her death,” said her father. He went on: "I will miss her; she had big dreams. Nevertheless all is well with my soul. But we must unravel the circumstances surrounding her death.” A lecturer who worked with Ms Jepchumba described her as one who always gave more than was required in her duties and assignments. She was a lecturer in the department of nutrition and dietetics. “She was hardworking, intelligent and always performed her duties diligently,” said the lecturer who declined to be named. EDUCATION Ms Jepchumba went to Lions Primary School in Nakuru town before joining Nakuru Girls High School. She then obtained a diploma in Nutrition and Dietetics from Kenyatta University and later a degree in the same discipline from Egerton University. She did her Internship at Thika Level Five Hospital in 2015. Mystery still surrounds her death. Detectives are still trying to unravel circumstances surrounding the tutor’s death. STRANGLED Her parents believe she was strangled before being dumped in Molo River. The family too maintains that their daughter was murdered before her body was dumped into the river. A post-mortem done last week on her body revealed that she was strangled to death. Police want a Nakuru court to allow them to subject the suspect, Mr Godfrey Kipkemboi Kangogo, who has been charged in court, to a DNA test. In the application made on Monday, the investigating officer, Mr John Gitau, is seeking permission to collect saliva, hair, buccal swab and finger nails from the suspect for DNA testing. Mr Kangogo said the lecturer was his girlfriend and that she slid and fell down into the river on July 6, 2018 at Choka Falls while taking a selfie.   Post-mortem reveals details contradicting story given by the lecturer's boyfriend who has been charged with murder.