Leaders from cane-growing areas on Saturday called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to form a commission of inquiry into the alleged dumping of sugar into the country and help revive dying millers. At the funeral of a former Postmaster-General, Mr Francis Chahonyo, the leaders accused the joint committee of the National Assembly, which had been assigned to investigate the sugar scandal, of turning the affair into a rent-seeking venture. Former deputy premier and ANC leader, Mr Musalia Mudavadi, Ford Kenya’s Mr Moses Wetang'ula and elected leaders from the western region said it was high time President Kenyatta stamped his authority and saved ordinary farmers from agony. They spoke at Hombala village in Sabatia, Vihiga County, in the wake of a failed investigation into alleged importation of toxic sugar by a joint committee of the National Assembly. Last week, the National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi reprimanded  the Parliamentary committees on trade and agriculture for failing to find out whether the commodity in the market was safe for human consumption or not. JOINT COMMITTEE Mr Muturi questioned the seriousness of the joint committee, co-chaired by MPs Kanini Kega (Kieni) and Adan Ali (Mandera South), and described the report as a "work in progress." A report presented to parliament appeared to absolve the importers of blame, angering other MPs who rejected it. "We need a public commission of inquiry to address the matter. The commission should have the ability to recommend prosecution," said Mr Mudavadi. "Parliament will not deliver. Poverty is on the rise in western. If there is sugar that is suspect, it should be investigated through a commission of inquiry for us to know the perpetrators and subject them to possible prosecution," added Mr Mudavadi. He warned that President Kenyatta risks losing his legacy should he fail to address the current crisis in the sugar industry. "One of the legacies of the president is manufacturing. Importation of cheap sugar is killing investment," said Mr Mudavadi, who was a key member in the opposition National Super Alliance in last year’s General Election. SUGAR BARONS When Wetang’ula stood to speak, he too attacked the National Assembly’s Agriculture Committee for appearing to shield sugar barons, rather than name and shame them. “Our unity will enable us reclaim our economy. We must be ready to walk the narrow path. We are ready to rally behind one of us. The Luhya nation produces more sugar than any other region. We ask the government to take action against the persons who imported contraband sugar,” he told mourners. “Members of the Committee should be surcharged. Our sugar industries are dying because of corruption.” With Mumias and Nzoia Sugar companies heavily indebted and not producing sugar, his claim was however not factually correct about the amount of production. West Kenya Sugar and Butali Sugar, privately owned millers, do not produce any better than other millers in Nyanza region and Narok County. It forced Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa who was present to defend the government, saying everyone should be patient as agencies tackle the matter. "We met leaders for two days and came up with a solution that will protect the sugar industry," said Mr Wamalwa. "We came up with regulations and they will be tabled in parliament for adoption. Some leaders are proposing for the formation of an ad hoc committee while others are asking for a commission of inquiry," he added. Sabatia MP, Mr Alfred Agoi, said 25 MPs from western had drafted a petition and presented it to the president for consideration. Mr Agoi said the MPs want the government to tackle the issue of contraband sugar immediately to save the ailing sugar industry. "Contraband sugar has killed our economy. The factories are not crushing because they have collapsed. We want the president to form a Commission to look into the sugar problem," said Mr Agoi. SUGAR PROBLEMS Mr Godfrey Osotsi, Nominated MP, said sugar problems began in 2016 when the Treasury CS Henry Rotich signed a Gazette Notice allowing free importation of sugar. This was a funeral where politicians from all walks of life and political parties, including the Central Organisation of Trade Unions Secretary-General Francis Atwoli, attended. And, as usual, speeches ranged from the elusive Luhya unity to sugar and the 2022 presidential polls. Mr Wetang'ula and Mr Cyrus Jirongo, a former Lugari MP, suggested that Luhya unity was important, but only if local communities were economically empowered. It started with reviving local sugar millers, they argued. "The Luhya community produces more sugar than any other region in the country. We ask the government to take action on importers of fake sugar because they are known," said Mr Wetang'ula. Mr Atwoli criticised local leaders for either staying on the fence or going with the wind when it comes to political decisions. “Politics is about making the correct decision at the right time,” Atwoli said. “The Jubilee administration is on the verge of breaking. Luhya leaders have to take advantage of the cracks,” he added, referring to the ruling party led by President Uhuru Kenyatta. JUBILEE DIVIDED Amid the talk of 2022 General Election, the Jubilee Party has appeared divided right in the middle, even though its leaders President Kenyatta and Deputy William Ruto claim it is still a united front. The issue has been whether President Kenyatta will still support his Deputy for Presidency in 2022, as was indicated in their pre-election agreement in 2013,  when they were respective leaders of  The National Alliance Party (TNA) and the United Republican Party (URP). It is TNA and URP that later merged, alongside other political parties to form the Jubilee Party in 2016. Today, even though Mr Kenyatta and Ruto have not directly indicated turmoil in their party, their lieutenants have been propagating public statements that indicate the split is imminent. Some who support Mr Ruto have demanded that the President indicates in public that he will support the DP, coming in the wake of a truce with opposition leader Raila Odinga in March. Mr Chahonyo, 72, leaves behind one wife, Ms Tabitha and seven children - among them six girls and one boy, all adults. He was the Postmaster-General when the VSAT deal (an internet provider) was signed under Anglo Leasing type contracts.   Health PS Peter Tum tells MPs that the sugar is high in moisture content.