The World Health Organisation (WHO) has approved a new formulation of a drug that can be used to prevent excessive bleeding in women after they give birth. The new drug, heat-stable carbetocin, is said to be as safe and effective as oxytocin in preventing postpartum haemorrhage. According to WHO, the drug will save thousands of lives, more so mothers in low and middle-income countries. Currently, the only available first choice drug recommended by WHO for preventing bleeding is oxytocin. However, oxytocin must be stored and transported at two to eight degree Celsius, which is very hard to do in many countries, hence depriving women of access to this life-saving drug. REFRIGRATION Doctors have raised concern that at times oxytocin may be less effective because of heat exposure. But the new formulation does not require refrigeration. It retains its efficacy for at least three years stored at 30 degrees Celsius and 75 per cent relative humidity. A study led by WHO in collaboration with MSD for Mothers and Ferring Pharmaceuticals compared a novel formulation of heat-stable carbetocin with oxytocin. “This is a truly encouraging new development that can revolutionise our ability to keep mothers and babies alive,” said WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. About 130,000 women die every year worldwide due to post-partum hemorrhage. 130,000 DEATHS The study, published in the New England Journal of Medicine revealed that the new drug is equivalent to standard treatment of oxytocin for the prevention of blood loss of at least 500 ml. We have had challenges with oxytocin because of the storage factor but we are happy new drugs are coming up,” said WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. Postpartum haemorrhage is the number-one killer of women in maternity wards, killing about 130,000 women every year, mostly in sub-Saharan Africa. More than half of these deaths occur within 24 hours after childbirth. About 130,000 women die every year worldwide due to post-partum haemorrhage. 34 PER CENT The bleeding is caused by either a placenta that is not expelled after birth or when the uterus fails to contract after delivery. It is defined as blood loss of 500ml or more within 24 hours after giving birth. Blood loss above 1,000ml within the same timeframe is considered to be more severe. Each pregnancy magnifies a mother’s risk especially if she does not have access to healthcare. The Confidential Enquiry into Maternal Deaths released earlier this month showed that postpartum haemorrhage accounts for 34 per cent of maternal mortality in Kenya, followed by pre-eclampsia/eclampsia (19 per cent) and unsafe abortion (nine per cent).  