Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has said he is determined to ensure the coastal town is clean in order to attract more visitors. Speaking Friday when he met with Nation Media Group (NMG) CEO Stephen Gitagama who paid him a courtesy call, Mr Joho said the painting of residential and commercial buildings in Mombasa’s central business district in a uniform colour is bearing fruit. “Today I overflew the town and saw a totally different Mombasa,” Mr Joho said. The county government is engaged is major exercise to spruce up the tourist city, giving it a new look. Mr Gitagama commended Governor Joho for cleaning the port city and rehabilitating pavements. Hoteliers, business community, residents and other tourism players have in the recent past praised the county government by for cleaning up the tourist hub. KIBARANI DUMPSITE The county is closing down the Kibarani dumpsite which has been an eyesore to visitors. The dumpsite is located along the Mombasa-Nairobi highway. The Joho administration wants to turn the Kibarani dumpsite into an attraction for residents and tourists. Mr Joho said the county is keen on selling Mombasa as major tourism destination through the restoration of the CBD and the Old Town. “We are committed in this course. We can see the county is now shining because of the colour that our people have embraced and this is not only attractive to our residents but to the international tourists as well,” Mr Joho said. He added: “We will work to sustain Mombasa’s glory and a destination of choice.” SKÅL CONFERENCE He announced that Mombasa will host the International Skål conference, a major tourism event expected to attract 6,000 delegates at Pride Inn Hotel. “One of the things that we will not shy away from telling others is that the county is the best choice. The delegates will be here with their families and you can imagine how it will be,” he said. Mombasa will host the 79th Skål International World Congress. Skål is a body that incorporates tourism players both in travel and hospitality sectors. The event will take place from October 17 to 21. The governor pledged to work with Nation Media Group in various activities. Mr Gitagama was accompanied by NMG Human Resource Director David Kiambi, Head of Corporate Affairs Clifford Machoka, Mr James Sogoti (General Manager, Commercial), NTV boss Alex Kobia and Coast Regional Editor Lucas Barasa.  