Many researchers and writers have come up with several reasons why marriages fail. Many argue that lack of sexual fulfilment, money issues, poor communication, and poor conflict management are the major causes. However, I believe some of these issues are just the tip of the iceberg, and that the root causes go much deeper. When a couple discovers and understands this, they can overcome the issues that cause marriages to break up. Marriages fail for many different reasons, or due to a combination of reasons. Many point a finger at unresolved issues, unfulfilled needs, or even issues of immorality. There might be little difference between Christian and non-Christian marital issues. Whether Christian or non-Christian, the health of a marriage demands that the spouses identify the deep-rooted factors they consider key to marital failure. For example, what lies behind the money issues a couple might have that could lead to a break-up? Is it inadequate finances or lack of trust? Further, what is the root of the lack of trust that leads to each person keeping their income and not treating it as shared? Is it selfishness, an attitudinal issue or lack of involvement. Let me discuss two of the deep-seated issues responsible for many break-ups. 1. Lack of involvement When a spouse feels like they are not involved in most of the critical issues in the home, they begin to feel like an alien in the relationship. A sense of belonging comes with involvement. Selfishness can only be dealt with when we choose to be vulnerable and are willing to involve others in our lives and affairs. When a couple is constantly fighting over money instead of calling it a money issue and, therefore, blaming it on lack of communication, it must be seen as a failure by both spouses on the intent of marriage. The intent of marriage involves building oneness. Like in a body, where each member knows where it belongs, the hand cannot tell the leg or head that they do not belong. Involvement speaks acceptance and affirmation. It removes fears, mistrust and suspicion. Involvement not only builds oneness, it also builds ownership and strengthens the unity of the marriage. When a couple incorporates each other’s strengths and weaknesses, they can find synergy. This is what creates passion in the marriage. The opposite is also true; people who feel left out in the important decisions in the marriage soon feel demoralised and taken for granted. Involvement says, “I recognise your abilities and strengths, and I am willing to allow you to bless this union with them.” In addition, involvement notes and accepts the other person’s weaknesses and looks for ways to close the gaps they create. It must be noted that, through involvement, both the weaknesses and strengths of your spouse will be seen and tested in the marriage. Involvement builds a couple’s contentment at whatever stage they find themselves in. When we blame, we take the position of both judge and jury. However, we are called not to be jurists, but to complement each other. 2. Lack of attitudinal change Attitude is everything. Even the best-intended actions fail if they are accompanied by a lousy attitude. An attitude can be learnt with time, or picked up from culture. These attitudes embed beliefs, values and assumptions that soon manifest through one’s behaviour and actions. A negative or positive expression will be evoked, depending on the perceptions one has of their spouse at a given moment. For example, “Are they trustworthy?” or what prior knowledge — culturally or otherwise — do you have of them? A person’s attitude is key in providing the framework through which they deal with changes that are bound to occur in the relationship, the opportunities arising from the combined husband-and-wife potential, and the accompanying failures from two imperfect people in a relationship. If this framework is faulty, then the perceptions and judgements that follow will be faulty. For example, if money is not the issue, then the attitude one has towards money is crucial. One question that will never stop being asked in couple training sessions is: “Is it my money or our money?” The answer lies in attitude. It might not matter who earns or keeps it. Spending will become an issue because of the varying attitudes that emerge regarding ownership. Even though it comes in from various avenues, attitude will dictate ownership. The truth is, our actions, including our body language, is a result of our mental attitude. If one’s attitude is healthy towards their partner, this determines the productivity of the relationship. It must be noted that our inner thought process functions as the framework or software upon which we programme our attitude towards someone or something. This is what determines how we make ourselves known, and what we stand for in the marriage and among those around us. As the saying goes, “garbage in, garbage out.” Similarly, our thought process will be determined by what we input. We have control over what determines out attitude towards others. As blogger and writer, Keith Harrell, notes, “Habitual bad attitudes are often the product of past experiences and events.” Looking for ways to develop a healthy you will just be the gift your partner is looking for. Checking on our motives helps determine what makes us act the way we do. It is, therefore, key to override past negative programming that influence your attitudes towards life by erasing these memories and replacing them with positive thoughts. The fact that one, two or even three men hurt a woman does not imply that she will develop a bad attitude towards all men. Relatives oppose our marriage because we are first cousins Hello, Thanks for the constructive advice you give. I’m a fan of yours. I have been in a relationship with my cousin for five years now. We love each other so much that we decided to take things to the next level, so we moved in together. But we are facing opposition from both our families so we decided to play it cool as we prepare for a serious encounter. The big question is, should we continue? She comes from my mother’s side and only my community is against marriage between cousins. Hi,Thank you for the compliments. I also trust that the column is making a difference in your life. In centuries past, people like Charles Darwin, a naturalist and evolutionist, married his first cousin, Emma Wedgwood, in 1839. The debate on whether one can marry a close family member has been raging for years, with some cultures considering it a taboo. However, cultures and certain groups, including scientists, have called for this taboo on marriages between first cousins to be lifted. Some scientists have argued that the risk of congenital defects in such marriages is so small, it is insignificant. But others are firmly against such marriages. Christian and most African cultures continue to speak against this practice. In a report published in the journal Science, which was based on the analysis of the family trees of 13 million people, the data from the genealogical profiles found a less than 10 per cent chance of birth defects. Reporting in the Miami Herald of March 2018, the report reveals that first cousins share an estimated 12.5 per cent of their DNA while second cousins share 6.25 per cent and third cousins share 3 per cent. In the United States, 24 states have banned the practice while 24 allow it. Although the Bible doesn’t address the subject of marriage between cousins directly, in the Leviticus 18:6-18, it forbids a man from marrying his daughter, sister, step-child, daughter-in-law, and grand-daughter, among others. Since marriage is such an intricate and intimate union between a man and a woman, many people find such unions difficult to accept. Besides the factors mentioned by scientists, the chances of having family feuds and even fights are quite high. Some of the important questions you need to ask yourself are: How will your desire to marry her affect your family relationships, friends, and your extended cultural community? In case you go ahead, like as you are proposing to do since they have denied you their blessings, how will the resulting societal pressure affect the chances of your marriage being successful? What you should remember is that the choices you make might have lasting consequences, which could lead to isolation. Send your relationship questions to dn2@ke.nationmedia.com   He started cheating on me and even beat me up when I confronted him about it.