Brian Ochieng, 26, was only three years old when his parents divorced. His mother relocated to Nairobi, leaving him with his father in Migori County. She had attempted to take Brian with him, but his father would hear none of it. He made it clear that he was not going to give up his only child without a fight. Brian’s mother soon settled down in Huruma Estate in Nairobi, and remarried shortly thereafter. After the divorce, Brian’s father often took him to visit his maternal grandmother who lived nearby. During one of these visits, Brian’s grandmother bundled him up one morning and off they left for Nairobi. As the bus entered the city, Brian clung to his grandmother as he took in the splendour of the city’s lights and tall buildings. He was terrified and mesmerised at the same. On arrival, they headed straight to Huruma Estate, to his mother’s house. A dazed Brian followed his grandmother as she manoeuvred her way before stopping at the door of a certain building in the heart of Huruma and knocked on the door. She looked at the little boy lovingly as they waited for the door to open All this while, his grandmother had not told him whom they were coming to see. Brian’s excitement at being in Nairobi was palpable. Little did he know that this was just the onset of his life’s worst nightmare. “I don't recall much about reuniting with my mother. However, I remember being introduced to a certain man who lived in my mother’s house and to a little girl who I was made to understand was my baby sister. When my grandmother left a while later, I had a sinking feeling in my stomach. I look back now and feel like that feeling was a premonition of the horrors that awaited me in the city." It started with insults and occasional slaps. He was a curious four-year-old and paid dearly for it when he was caught in any mischief. This would call for a hateful tongue-lashing from his mother and stinging blows from his stepfather. The beatings intensified with time. His says stepfather never missed an opportunity to punish him for the slightest mistake. His mother often joined in the beating or stood by hurling insults at him with each blow he received. On one occasion they roughed him up so badly that he wound up in a hospital. “When I was hospitalised, I hoped it would scare them, and that they would never lay a hand on me again. I was disillusioned. A few months later, I was beaten by my parents for spending the entire afternoon playing with children in our neighbourhood. I was punished for having a good time with fellow children." "I looked into my mother’s hate-filled eyes as she rained blows on me. It dawned on me that she hated me. She did not want anything to do with me. Even at that tender age of five, I understood that I was not wanted in this family. The next morning, I ran away from home and vowed never to return.” When Brian left home, he ended up in Eastleigh. He was walking aimlessly on the streets when he came across a group of children who looked a bit older than him. A boy in the group approached him. “Hey, are you looking for someone to hang out with?” the boy asked. “Uh…I am new here. I ran away from home,” Brian stammered fearfully. “Well, come and join us. We will be your new family,” the boy replied as he motioned Brian to join them. At first, Brian was reluctant to join the children. Their faces and hands looked greasy with dirt and they stank. Some of them had no shoes and their feet were caked with all manner of filth. But they had smiles on their faces and kindness in their eyes. They seemed almost happy to see him and to have him join them. It had been a while since anyone looked at him with even the slightest hint of affection. As he drew closer to them, a comforting thought crossed Brian’s mind: “I have a family now.”   DRUGS AND CRIME Adjusting to his new life was tough. He particularly loathed scavenging for food. The smell of decaying food and having to bite around the rot made him gag. For the first three months, Brian fell so sick that he was afraid he would die. It was around this time that one of the boys introduced him to glue. The boy explained that the glue would get him high and numb him from the filth that surrounded them. True to this, when Brian started inhaling glue, the filth lost most of its stench. “One day I was begging for money in the midday traffic right here in town when someone rolled down the window of this big luxurious car. I stretched my hand in anticipation but the gentleman looked at me and asked whether I would like to make money instead of begging for it. I was puzzled. He placed a package in my hands and pointed to a car on the opposite side of the street. He asked me to take me that package to the car across and come back for my reward. He told me once I go to the car, I should knock and wait.” “I did as he requested and when I came back, he asked me to stretch out my hand to him. He poured some white powder on my palm and asked me to lick it like glucose. He said it would make me feel good. After an hour, I was so high I slept 24 hours straight. The next day, I met the same man along the same street and did two drop-offs for him. That is how I got hooked to peddling and using cocaine. I never got caught. Which police officer would frisk a common street urchin and risk soiling their hands with our filth?” Brian and his friends roamed mainly in the streets of Nairobi. One time they smuggled their way to Mombasa in search of new thrills. They hid in between the wheels of cargo trucks and luckily, they could not be easily spotted due to their slight body frames. Unfortunately, two of the boys slipped and got crushed under the truck. “It saddened us to lose our friend, but that did not deter us from our journey. You see, the streets harden you in a way. Death was sad, but so was our life. We were not foreign to terrible things happening to us every now and then." Brain spent seven years on the streets. Although the drugs blurred the severity of the cruel life on the street, some experiences cut painfully deep into his soul. Like the day when an older boy raped him. He had just turned 11. It is a dark memory that shakes him to date. He painfully recalls one time when well-wishers came, picked some boys off the street and left without giving him as much as a second glance. It was as if no one wanted him. There was also the time he spotted his mother on the streets and attempted to touch her but she shrugged him off and went her way. That stung.   HOPE “I was lying on a cold corridor out there on the street one rainy morning. A woman bent over and asked me if I would like to get some help. I grunted a reply and she took it for a yes. She told me that she could help me, but on one condition – I had to enroll on her programme, known as Made in the Street.” “When I joined the programme, I received basic education and graduated at 18. I wanted to study catering but they did not offer catering courses back then. I decided to give back to the centre by applying for a cook’s job. Fortunately, the centre had Wi-Fi and I was able to learn a lot through YouTube. I worked there for five years and made many friends, including with the programme’s well-wishers from the US. They loved my cooking.” He got clean while at the centre. In 2014, Brian left the centre with some savings and exceptional cooking skills. He relocated to Uthiru and started looking for work. He had no luck securing a job despite sending out 165 job applications. He started making chapati and mandazis, which he sold by the road to earn a living. One day he received a call from Hang Lee, one of his friends in the US. Brian shared his job-seeking woes, which deeply saddened Hang Lee. A few days later, Brian received a call from the then manager of Ocean Basket. He had been referred to Brian by Lee and wanted him to attend an interview. Although Brian did not have decent clothes for the interview, he wore his confidence quite well. After a successful interview, he started his new job as a cook at Ocean Basket in Westlands, Nairobi. “I never stopped subscribing to cooking videos on YouTube. I learnt how to make exotic meals through the tutorials. After six months, I got promoted to a sushi chef. That is when I relocated from Uthiru to Lavington. One year into the job, I started having this queasy feeling in my gut, a longing to do something for children on the streets. I knew they were not having it easy one bit. I started by buying a lot of fries in town and distributing them to the street children every evening. Then I started spending all my off days distributing food to them.”   GIVING BACK Brian handed in his resignation letter after two years of a successful career as a cook at Ocean Basket in Westlands. His decision to resign came after he realised that he was happier taking care of street children than whipping up exotic meals. Love for a Street Child was born with the aim of feeding and restoring the dignity of street children. It has grown immeasurably, impacting street children one life at a time. At around that time, Brian got reunited with his father. It was a tearful reunion, during which his father embraced him and promised to be there for him henceforth. “There is only one thing that bothers me: my strained relationship with my mother. I have tried to draw close to her, to no avail. When I landed the job and got my life in shape, I went back to Huruma. She did not chase me away, but she did not embrace me either. Luckily, my career as a motivational speaker has me travelling a lot. Every time I come back, hoping that she has missed me, hoping to see some warmth in her eyes, nothing. When I told her about my ordeals on the street, she brushed them off. I love her deeply. I believe one day she will find it in her heart to reciprocate that love. Or at least say the words I yearn to hear: “Son, I’m proud of you.”   Orphaned at nine, Samuel spent his childhood as part of a gang at the Dandora dumpsite