The sharp increase in electricity tariffs for middle-class consumers is a surprising repudiation of the government’s own pledges to reduce the cost of power for all consumers. According to the new tariffs announced on Monday by the Energy Regulatory Commission, this category of consumers will have their power bills go up by up to 54 per cent, while large-scale consumers, especially industries, will enjoy a 50 per cent cost reduction. Though small-scale electricity users will enjoy double digit drops, the new tariffs are rather punitive to the consumers who are hardest hit by inflation. When it came to power in 2013, the Jubilee leadership promised to ensure that every citizen is connected to reliable and affordable electricity by 2020. It also pledged to complete the development of new power plants currently under construction, including the 310 MW Lake Turkana Wind Power Plant (the largest wind power plant in Africa), and the two units in Olkaria, which were expected to add another 210 MW to the grid. DRASTIC REDUCTION Last week, Energy Principal Secretary John Njoroge told the consumers to expect a drastic reduction in electricity bills from September when the Lake Turkana Wind Power Project will be connected to the national grid. A month to the promised relief, the government has done the complete about-turn. The reality is that while the current administration has connected more homes to the national grid, it has also saddled the consumers with punitive costs that negate the whole policy of lighting up homes. At a time when the cost of living is at an all-time high, an extra burden on the shoulders of power consumers is a blistering insult. The bills are high because the government has been unable to fully bring on board cheaper power alternatives such as geothermal and wind. The sooner it completes stalled projects across the country, the better for the nation. MEGA CORRUPTION The energy sector has lately been in the news for mega corruption scandals which raise serious questions about the management of power firms and the authenticity of bills and the whole billing system. Still, the power sector has always operated on a risk-free investment model where investors are not responsible for fuel charges, currency fluctuations and inflation, inconveniences which are passed on to consumers. The average power consumer pays much more in taxes and adjustments for investors than for what he actually consumes. The government must shield the consumer from these extraneous charges and shift them to the investors if it is serious about connecting every home by 2020. The power sector is crying out for a thorough clean-up if only to inspire public confidence but most all, the government owes Kenyans an explanation as to why it has gone back on its promise with such blatant ease.  