Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed has issued new measures to stem wave of unrest sweeping secondary schools across the country. On Monday, Ms Mohamed has ordered all boarding schools to double the number of teachers on duty over the next two weeks, with greater emphasis on surveillance of boarding facilities when students are attending evening preps. The ministry has also directed school administrations and boards to take firm steps to ensure learning continues unaffected. Quality assurance officers in all counties have been directed to file daily reports on the security situations in their regions with clear explanations on any existing gaps. Ms Mohamed said 125 students have so far been arrested over the recent strikes that she blamed on fear of exams and indiscipline. While the Education ministry puts the tally of schools that have been closed last week over unrest, Nation tally puts the number at 16 in Western and Nyanza regions only. The top-performing Maranda High School is among schools that have been hit by unrest in the past week. Others are: Kisumu Girls, Ng'iya Girls, Ambira, Maliera, Onjiko, Otieno Oyoo, Chulaimbo, Oriwo, Ngere, Kandiege, Usenge, Barding, St Augustine Nyamonye, St Mary's Girls Mumias and Litein Boys High School. THREE JAILED Arising from recent incidents, the Education ministry said three students from Siakago Boys in Embu have been jailed for one year on probation and have since cleared from the school. Ms Mohamed said they can only attend a day school as they report to the local chief. But day schools have not been spared the unrest either after police on Monday arrested 15 students from Nyakeyo Secondary School in Marani, Kisii County for allegedly torching two houses in Gekongo accusing villagers of "bewitching" a colleague who died on Saturday. DCI WARNING Only on Sunday did the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) wade into the students' criminal activities, warning those who participate in strikes, demonstrations and destruction of school property that they risk charges which will be reflected on their Good Conduct certificates in the future. DCI warned it is profiling and archiving all the crimes committed in schools. “This is to warn every student from primary school, secondary school, college and university that the DCI is archiving and profiling every criminal act and consolidating charges that may be preferred to each and every student involved in any crime,” tweeted DCI on Sunday.  