African editors have condemned the confiscation of newspapers in Sudan. In a press statement, The African Editors Forum (TAEF) on Tuesday condemned the Sudanese National Intelligence and Security Services (NISS) for the seizure of three entire print runs of the Al-Jareeda newspaper. “TAEF calls on the Sudanese government to cease forthwith, the arbitrary confiscation of newspapers and the intimidation of journalists,” read the statement. The Sudanese government banned the newspaper after it reported and took photos of people queueing for bread and public transport as well as motorists queueing for fuel. CONFISCATED For the third day on Tuesday, the newspapers were confiscated from the printing presses in a bid to ensure that the publication does not reach readers. “The deplorable action by the NISS is designed to intimidate the media and deny the Sudanese public access to (the) information they need to make decisions about their lives,” the editors said. SOLIDARITY The Africa editors said they stand with all the journalists, editors and publishers in Sudan and urged them to work without fear of intimidation by the Sudanese state agencies. They accused the NISS of being responsible for the crackdown on the media which led to the detention without trial of at least 8 journalists and the confiscation of the Al-Jareeda and Al-Midan newspapers. “TAEF repeats its deep solidarity with, and will continue to support Sudanese journalists who continue to work under difficult conditions,” said the statement. MEDIA LAWS Recently, journalists demonstrated against proposed new laws designed to tighten media freedom in Sudan. The editors have called on the government of Sudan to scrap the draft law and to dismantle the National Council for Press and Publications. Among other things, the proposed law would allow the statutory Sudan press council to ban a newspaper from publishing for 15 days without a court order. The editors further want African Union to exert pressure on Sudan and other African governments to remove from their statuette books, laws that are hostile to media freedom.  