Stringent measures issued by National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi on the operation of House committees have been praised. Chairpersons of various parliamentary departmental committees said the measures will improve the oversight role of the House. Some of the strict guidelines are limiting contact between MPs and witnesses, limiting the number of members who attend hearings as friends of a committee, and declaration of interest by MPs before starting any investigations. The Speaker also warned MPs who make technical appearance in committees and then leave that they would be sanctioned. RESPOND He also told various departmental committees to allow either a principal secretary or senior officers of ministries to attend and respond to queries, where personal attendance of the Cabinet Secretary can be excused. MPs have on many occasions turned away principal secretaries and senior government officials, insisting that they only want a session with a CS. National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale said the measures will bring sanity to the House. “The communication from the Speaker came at the right time, and IT will add value on how committees conduct their business. In the communication, the interest of public is now guaranteed,” Mr Duale said. PLEASED “Any members who contravenes the communication of the Speaker will be going against the Standing Orders and even the Constitution,” Mr Duale added. Public Investments Committee Chairman Abdulswamad Nassir said he was pleased with the communication from the Speaker, especially the one limiting the number of members attending as friends of the committee. “Though it does not affect my committee directly, the issue of friends of committees jamming other committees is rampant in many others,” Mr Nassir said. “I remember an instance in the 11th Parliament when I was a member of the Finance Committee when friends of the committee were more than the actual members, who even missed places to sit,” added the Mvita lawmaker. GUIDELINES “We have witnessed friends of committee come to a sitting and go ahead to interfere with investigations. Some come with an intention to scuttle investigations and to protect certain interests,” said Minority Leader John Mbadi. Justice and Legal Affairs Committee Chairman William Cheptumo said the guidelines should not be seen as limiting the powers of the committees, but as a step in enhancing the oversight role of Parliament. “We are doing oversight for the Kenyan people and not for ourselves. Committees should have the highest discipline when handling their duties. The image of Parliament is paramount,” Mr Cheptumo said. Chairman of the Public Accounts committee, Mr Opiyo Wandayi, while supporting the Speaker, said Parliament must, at all times be seen as the champion of public interest and, more critically, the public must be assured that Parliament is playing its watchdog role.   Speaker says MPs should relate with witnesses called before committees strictly at “arms length”.