Vihiga County government employed seven underage people as workers between 2013 and 2017, a staff audit released Wednesday reveals. An audit report conducted by the Directorate of Personnel Management in the Office of the President says the minors were receiving salaries of over Sh25,000. ID CARDS According to the report released by Vihiga Governor Wilber Ottichilo, the minors changed details of vital documents to disguise as adults and continued to earn pay using forged identities. The minors also shared identity card numbers and bank accounts with adults. The 100-page report recommends recovery of salaries paid to the minors and wants senior officials involved in the scam to be reprimanded. "Any person employed while below 18 years will immediately be removed from the payroll,” Dr Ottichilo said. He added that disciplinary action will be taken against the officers who signed their letters and put them on pay. The report is a random sample that could point to the rot in the system during the period under review. It is not clear whether the taxes due on the minor’s pay were remitted as they were aged between 15 and 17. The governor called for a staff audit immediately he took office. He said the audit exercise took ten months. The report also recommends that all the 100 staff aged above 45 years and are on permanent and pensionable terms be put on contract as their employment is against the Pension Act, in what could cause a new rift between trade unions and the governor. Only recently, nurses and doctors had been staying away from work until the officials entered a deal to stop the strike. Further, all staff who have been on probation for over one year will be confirmed in line with Section 71(1) of the County Government Act. Dr Ottichilo said the audit identified some ghost workers on the county's payroll and recommended prosecution. The governor said the implementation of the report will be pegged on Article 35 of the Constitution and the office of the president that conducted the audit. "With the directive (from the Office of the President), we have highlighted a few key issues and recommended action to be taken by my government," said Dr Ottichilo. The same report will be forwarded to the county assembly for adoption. "By September 2017 during the audit, Vihiga County government had a staff establishment of 3,234 (against a recommendation of 1,200). The government has already embarked on the implementation of recommendations of this report," said Dr Ottichilo.  