There is some concern in the civil service as nearly 20,000 staff have retired in the past two years, with no clear indication as to how to fill those positions. It's a crisis of the government's own making, as a decision made several years ago returns to haunt it. And the situation won't get any better soon, as another 7,000 government employees are expected to retire by December. In its effort to solve the problem of a bloated public service and the huge wage bill, the National Treasury several years ago slapped a ban on the hiring of new staff. While this has helped to check an increase in salaries to the civil servants, it has not sufficiently addressed the challenge of succession planning. SKILLED CIVIL SERVANTS This has created a situation where some highly skilled civil servants leaving employment cannot be immediately replaced because of a moratorium on hiring across all the sectors. Indeed, this matter is compounded by the consequences of what seemed like a clever decision, but was merely postponing and not solving the crisis. Confronted with the challenge of retiring civil servants who had attained the then retirement age of 55, in 2009, the government simply raised this to 60. Since then, there has been no corresponding number of young skilled people coming in to replace those leaving. As they retire, the quality of service has been severely compromised, with no injection of fresh blood. EFFICIENCY In some departments, one staffer reportedly now performs the tasks of three, hampering quality and efficiency. With the advent of the 47 counties, the situation has worsened. Indeed, the government's intention to have a lean, affordable and efficient civil service has been terribly frustrated, with the governors going on recruitment sprees. As a result, out of the total workforce of 210,000, some 142,000 of them are in the counties. With the limited resources, this is a tall order. It's noteworthy, however, that Public Service Cabinet Secretary Margaret Kobia is fully aware of the crisis and has asked her colleagues to address the problem.  