Kisumu Governor Peter Anyang’ Nyong’o is banking on development partners to sustain momentum in rebuilding western Kenya’s biggest urban centre. In various forums, the governor and his officials say they are excited with the prospect of devolution as a key way of ensuring basic services are improved. Prof Nyong’o says Kisumu’s position in western Kenya comes with great expectation from residents “whom I am happy to serve”. “Kisumu’s physical infrastructure is dilapidated and contributes significantly to the high cost of doing business in the county,” the governor said in his manifesto last year. He said things have changed when he talked to journalists last week. “Through the projects that the county government and development partners have initiated, residents are enjoying the fruits of devolution,” Prof Nyong’o said. URBAN PROJECT Apart from the usual local revenues and allocations from the National Treasury, the county is a key partner of government schemes like the Kenya Informal Settlement Improvement Programme (KISIP) and the French Government-funded Kisumu Urban Project (KUP). It is on this ground that Kisumu Public Works, Roads and Transport executive Thomas Ondijo says the county government embarked on an ambitious programme to ensure works on major roads are completed. In an interview during a roads inspection, Mr Ondijo said the county has initiated a Sh242 million road building plan. The programme, he said, would ensure the rehabilitation of feeder roads and the construction of more to improve transport. “We want to ensure that work on roads, particularly in the sugar belt, rice-growing zones and those connecting major towns, is completed as soon as possible,” the executive told journalists. Kisumu is on the shores of Lake Victoria and that puts it above other western counties in terms of economic power. INVESTMENTS It also challenges residents and government officials to think about investments in agriculture, transport, fisheries, tourism and other industries. Rice is grown in the vast Kano plains of Nyando Sub-County while Muhoroni is known for sugarcane farming. There is also potential for tourism since the county has a long beautiful shoreline. Ndere Island National Park, which has an amazing variety of wildlife and Kit Mikayi rock in Seme Sub-county attract local and international tourists. Then there is God Mesa viewpoint in Nyabondo, from which one has a panoramic view of Nyando plains and Lake Victoria as well as Impala Park within the lake city make Kisumu an amazing tourist destination. Lake Victoria does not only link Kisumu to three other counties but also with two other East African countries of Tanzania and Uganda. REGIONAL CENTRE “This makes Kisumu have the potential of becoming a regional centre of lake transport and a gateway for Kenya to the rest of the African great lakes,” Prof Nyong’o said. Geographically, Kisumu occupies an important position in the larger East Africa. It serves as the headquarters of Lake Victoria Basin Commission, which brings together all the East African Community states of Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda and Burundi. It also serves as the head office of the Lake Region Economic Bloc that comprises 14 counties.“Good infrastructure is therefore key in enabling Kisumu achieve its huge socio-economic potential,” Mr Ondijo said. The executive added that the county government will use Sh93 million to pave roads in Nyando and Muhoroni, the richest agricultural sub-counties in Kisumu. UPGRADE ROADS “The money will be used to upgrade roads used by trucks and tractors delivering cane to millers. They will also be used by vehicles transporting rice,” the executive said. Governor Nyong’o says he will ensure the awarding of tenders for projects is transparent and accountable. He has already formed committees expected to see to it that contractors working on public infrastructure projects do good work. “This will reverse the trend of contractors walking away with millions of shillings for projects that crumble as soon as they are commissioned,” the Kisumu County boss said. “We want to employ people to maintain the roads once they are constructed. This will ensure they last and money spent on repairing them every often used elsewhere or channelled into the pockets of the young people involved in their maintenance.” Prof Nyong’o added that those serving in the committees would be trained on what to look out for when certifying the roads. INFRASTRUCTURE “The project will additionally be scrutinised by county government officials,” he said. There are other important departments charged with managing and developing the county infrastructure. They include the department of Lands, Housing, Physical Planning and Urban Development, the department of Roads, Transport and Public Works and the City Management department. These departments usually come up with policies that help to regulate infrastructure development. They work together with strategic partners in developing and upgrading infrastructure. The impact of these projects has greatly been felt by Kisumu County residents, the governor and the executive said. A clear example is the construction of roads in Nyalenda, which residents say has completely changed the landscape of the area. NEW ROADS Mr Dickson Mbogo, a Nyalenda resident, says new roads have improved movement, especially when it rains. Mrs Margaret Oluoch, a resident of Obunga, is also happy with floodlights that have been put up in the slum by the county government and KISIP. The businesswoman says the lights have enabled her and other traders work for more hours and earn an extra income. “The floodlights have also improved security in our area,” Mrs Oluoch said. These infrastructural projects provide employment for Kisumu County youth. Ms Ann Akinyi, a resident of Obunga and a single mother of two, earns a living by building drainages in the area.“It has enabled me support my family,” she said. Five schools have been upgraded to modern standards by the city department under the KUP project. They are Angira, Rata, Thim Bonde, Rweya, and Got Nyabondo primary schools.  