Reigning champions Kabras Sugar on Saturday led other big guns into the main cup quarter-finals of the Sepetuka Sevens, the second leg of this season's Stanbic National Sevens rugby series at Eldoret Sports Club. Kabras, who are also the Sepetuka Sevens defending champions, opened their title defence with a 24-14 over Strathmore Leos before a close 7-5 win in their second match against Kisumu RFC in Pool B. Against the Leos, Dominic Osino converted Paul Abuto’s try for a 7-0 lead for Kabras before Owen Otieno converted his own try to level the scores. Osino went past the try line to give the Sugar millers a 12-7 lead at the break and on resumption, Dennis Juma’s converted try saw the students take a 14-12 lead but the sugar men restored the lead through Aluda Beda's try that was converted by Fabian Olando. Prinsloo champions Homeboyz rallied from 10-0 down to beat Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology (MMUST) 33-17, but the students upset favourites Menengai Oilers 10-7 with two unconverted tries in the second match. Nobert Makhakha and Timothy Mmasi touched down as Derrick Keyoga pulled one back for Oilers that was well converted in their second match. Earlier on, Kelvin Abuga made two unconverted tries to give MMUST a 10-0 lead but Homeboyz responded through Johnstone Olindi’s converted try before Leonard Mugaisi gave Homeboyz a 14-10 advantage going into the break. Mark Wandetto then scored between the posts for the Deejays but Ian Mukanzi’s converted try bought MMUST back into the match. Homeboyz’s Brian Juma scored at the death to secure the result. Former series champions Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) humiliated Kisii RFC 29-0 in their first match. The bankers made three tries in the first half through Ahmed Shaban’s brace plus Isaac Njoroge’s touch down with Shaban converting his last try for a 17-0 lead.It was after the break that Shaban converted Brian Omondi’s try for a 24-0 lead as Jeff Okwach made his first try between the posts that was converted for a 29-0 win. Favourites Kenya Harlequin lost their opener to Nondescripts 12-0 with tries from Saidi Sumba and Benjamin Marshall doing the damage. After successfully hosting the series opener last weekend, Nakuru RFC won all their opening matches to secure their quarter-finals slot. In the opening match, the Nakuru beat Blak Blad 26-19 and thrashed another university side, Catholic Monks 43-0 make it to the last eight. Impala Saracens also joined the fray following their two wins as Stanbic Mwamba edged out Strathmore Leos 14-12 to become the fourth team to sail through.  