Tension was high in Olposmoru, Narok County, after the house of a former member of the county assembly was set ablaze by unknown people. Mr Wilson Maikonte’ house was torched on Friday, three days before the High Court delivers a ruling in an election petition between him and current MCA Wilson Kuyo. In the petition, Mr Kuyo of Orange Democratic Movement is accused of using witchcraft to win in last year’s General Election. Mr Kuyo is accused of hiring a witchdoctor, who slaughtered a colobus monkey before he performed rituals to help him win the seat. The former MCA, who believes his house was torched by youths from a rival faction, say now he fears for his life. HARVESTING TREES According to the police, the incident occurred after Mr Masikonte of Jubilee and Mr Kuyo’s supporters clashed at Kiptagich area in Nakuru County over harvesting of trees. During the incident, Mr Kuyo and five others sustained injuries and were treated at Olenguruone Sub-County hospital. “There was a scuffle between the two rival groups on Friday at Kiptagich over harvesting of blue gum trees,” said Narok OCPD Joseph Kisombe. The police boss suspects the standoff to be linked to the election petition pending in court. Following the Friday incident, the police have tightened security in Nakuru ahead of Monday’s ruling. Mr Kisombe said police have launched investigations into the incidents and those involved will be arrested and charged in court with arson. POLITICAL CONTEST "The political contest is the source of tension among the residents, we have intensified patrols as we investigate the incident,” said Mr Kisombe. Mr Masikonte successfully challenged the election of Mr Kuyo before a Narok court before Mr Kuyo moved to the High Court to challenge the lower court’s verdict. “Tension is evident in Olposimoru because of the election petition verdict due tomorrow (Monday),” said Mr Masikonte. Masikonde, who served for more than 20 years as a councillor before being elected as an MCA, said his 80-year-old mother and her friend, who were in the house at the time if the incident, escaped unhurt. Mr Kuyo, however, dismissed the claims linking him to the incident. “I never sent anybody to go and burn the house, so let the police do their job and find out the culprits,” said Mr Kuyo.  