The idealised picture of life in Britain usually involves a village green, a game of cricket and a public house named The Duke of Wellington, The Crown and Anchor or something similar. However, statistics have raised doubts as to how long the local pub will remain part of the scene, with the landlord’s traditional closing call, “Time, gentlemen please,” taking on an air of real-time finality. Almost 1,300 pubs have closed in the past year, a rate of some 25 per week, according to the real estate adviser Altus Group. The closures are putting people out of work, with 17,000 fewer bar staff employed across the country in 2017 than in 2015. SALES DECREASING The British pub is not unique — there are bars and drinking places all over the world — but it has a homely flavour that others fail to match, often generated by the personality of the landlord himself. Loyal customers have their favourite seats which you would not dare to take, darts and dominoes are usually available and music is often barred if that’s the way the regulars want it. One reason for the closures, experts say, is the constant increases in beer duty, business rates and Value Added Tax. Beer duty increased by 42 per cent between 2008 and 2014. But a change in our drinking behaviour is almost certainly a major factor. Data show that while the amount of beer sold in pubs has been slowly decreasing, the volume sold in supermarkets is increasing. INVARIABLY CHEAPER Partly this is because beer sold in shops is invariably cheaper than that sold in pubs. Many drinkers will buy a dozen cans of lager at the supermarket and drink them at home while watching television, without the bother of dressing up to go out. Seeking relief from the heatwave we have been experiencing, a friend of mine went to a pub one afternoon last week and found only three customers there. Where was everybody? Said the barman, “Sitting on deckchairs in their gardens and drinking cans from the supermarket.” * * * One person who is a loyal supporter of the beer business is Eileen Maher from Blackpool, who celebrated her 100th birthday last week. Eileen lives in a care home, where she marked the big day by dancing, nibbling on her favourite custard cream biscuits and downing a glass of Stella lager. Said Elaine Wright, manager of the home, “We always have a supply of beer for Eileen. She loves her Stella.” * * * Much of this column last week was devoted to contactless technology or paying bills by showing your debit card at the supermarket checkout, whereupon the amount is deducted from your bank account. Tap-and-pay, or swish-and-go, if you prefer, has gone a step further. Street performers at next month’s Edinburgh Festival of music and drama are to be offered special readers that take fixed-amount payments. An artist with a pitch on the city’s famous Royal Mile, Scott Hutchinson, praised the move. “Up to now I have relied on cash donations,” he said, “and I’ve noticed a dip as the number of people carrying cash has decreased.” * * * Hailed as a step forward in race relations, Dee-Ann Kentish-Rogers has become the first black winner of the Miss Great Britain title in the 66-year history of the beauty pageant. Dee-Ann, from the overseas territory of Anguilla, described the achievement as “the best experience of my life.” She will now go on to represent Great Britain in the Miss Universe pageant later this year. * * * Joke time: “Do you have kids?” “Yes, I have one child that’s under two.” “I might be stupid, but I know how many one is.” * * * What children learned from studying the Bible. The following statements have not been edited or corrected. Moses led the Jews to the Red Sea, where they made unleavened bread, which is bread without any ingredients. The Egyptians were all drowned in the dessert. Afterwards, Moses went up to Mount Cyanide to get the Ten Commandments. The First Commandment was when Eve told Adam to eat the apple. The Seventh Commandment is thou shalt not admit adultery. The greatest miracle in the Bible is when Joshua told his son to stand still and he obeyed him. Noah’s wife was Joan of Ark… Lot’s wife was a pillar of salt during the day, but a ball of fire during the night. Jesus enunciated the golden rule, which says to do unto others before they do one to you. Christians have only one spouse. This is called monotony. Sampson was a strong man who let himself be led astray by a jezebel like Delilah. Gerryo69@hotmail.com  