The wave of school fires sweeping across Nyanza continued on Thursday with a dorm going up in smoke at Gendia High School in Rachuonyo North Homa Bay County. School principal Reuben Kodiango confirmed the incident to the Nation, saying they cause had not been established. PREPS Flames broke out a few minutes after 5am and the dorm was still burning by 7.30am. The dawn incident happened as students undertook their morning preps. Mr Kodiango said nothing was salvaged, with some students losing all their belongings. "We have lost a dormitory to inferno with students belongings razed to ashes," he said. Homa Bay County Police Commander Marius Tum said they were investigating the incident. The school becomes the third to lose a dormitory in Homa Bay after Kandiege Mixed Secondary and Oriwo Boys High. The unrest has continued even after Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed issued new measures to stem wave. On Monday, Ms Mohamed ordered all boarding schools to double the number of teachers on duty over the next two weeks, with greater emphasis on surveillance of boarding facilities when students are attending evening preps. 125 STUDENTS The ministry has also directed school administrations and boards to take firm steps to ensure learning continues unaffected. Quality assurance officers in all counties have been directed to file daily reports on the security situations in their regions with clear explanations on any existing gaps. Ms Mohamed said 125 students have so far been arrested over the recent strikes that she blamed on fear of exams and indiscipline. While the Education ministry puts the tally of schools that have been closed last week over unrest, Nation tally puts the number at 16 in Western and Nyanza regions only. The top-performing Maranda High School is among schools that have been hit by unrest in the past week. Others are: Kisumu Girls, Ng'iya Girls, Ambira, Maliera, Onjiko, Otieno Oyoo, Chulaimbo, Oriwo, Ngere, Kandiege, Usenge, Barding, St Augustine Nyamonye, St Mary's Girls Mumias and Litein Boys High School.   Five schools have been closed over student unrest