Anglican Church’s Mt Kenya West Diocese Bishop Joseph Kagunda has finally reinstated and redeployed three priests suspended over allegations of engaging in homosexuality three years ago. Bishop Kagunda’s move is in compliance with a court order issued October 30, 2016 by Justice Byram Ongaya, that he had disobeyed. Justice Ongaya quashed the suspension after ruling that the gay allegations were false and ordered the bishop to reinstate the clerics. It was unconstitutional for the Church to suspend the three priests from pastoral work without evidence on allegations levelled against them, ruled the judge. CONTEMPT Bishop Kagunda issued the letters a day after he was sent to a civil jail for contempt by Nyeri’s Labour Court judge Nzioki Makau. But his imprisonment was lifted shortly after the bishop’s lawyer, Wachira Nderitu, said the church would redeploy the priests immediately. The bishop was recalled to the courtroom as he was being escorted to prison. Venerable John Njogu Gachau, Reverend James Maina Maigua and Reverend Paul Mwangi Warui were issued with reinstatement and redeployment letters morning through their lawyer David Onsare. They were all posted in Nyeri South Sub County. “In accordance and in compliance with the court orders of Justice Nzioki wa Makau made on July 12, 2018, you are hereby posted to Kariki parish. Further, we are reinstating your license to officiate to enable you carry out ministerial duties,” read the letter addressed to Mr Gachau. Reverend Warui was redeployed to St Stephens Thunguri parish while Reverend Maigua was redeployed to Witima parish. Mr Maigua will take over the parish from Reverend Joshua Kiiru while Mr Warui will be handed the Thunguri parish by Reverend Harrison Wachanga. The redeployment letters were copied to the deputy registrar Employment and Labour Relations Court in Nyeri. The clerics are now waiting to receive all their accrued salaries from August 2015, when they were sacked, according to the court order. Archbishop Gachau was awarded Sh2,437,780 million, Reverend Maigua Sh2,224,996 and Rev Warui Sh2,219,814 million.   Anglican Church agrees to reinstate priests suspended on allegations of engaging in homosexuality.