When the little, lifeless body of Mary Wamuyu Karuri, 8, was found in a maize garden, her school bag was next to her. She was abducted on the way to — or possibly from — school, defiled and bludgeoned to death. Another little girl, Mercy Njoki, 4, was dropped off at school, never to be seen alive again. Eleven days later, her body was found in the bush, without a tongue and nails. She, too, had been defiled. The slaughter of children in Murang’a is such that at least one child is defiled and killed in the county every week in recent days. In fear, some parents in Kigumo are escorting their children to school and waiting for them at the gate after classes. VERY BAD SIGN These extreme forms of violence against the most defenceless are a very bad sign for the community. But it is not happening only in Murang’a; it is all over the country. And defilement and the cruel killings are just the most extreme forms of violence against children; there are many others, including verbal abuse and psychological torture. I have been reading scary reports about what is happening to our children. Children — that is, those aged between two and 17 years — are still most likely to be sexually assaulted by peers, especially their boyfriends and girlfriends. But al-most 20 per cent of sex attacks are carried out by total strangers: Paedophiles and other perverts, as well as criminals, who perpetrate opportunistic crime. In terms of the physical and psychological abuse, it is the parents who are the biggest danger to their offspring. The worst thing that can happen to a child, and this is science, not just the views of an indulgent parent, is to be exposed to violence of whatever nature. It impairs the development of their brain and creates individuals who are least likely to achieve. Psychologically, it raises the risk of the child growing into a mentally ill, damaged adult, given to drug abuse, sexual risk taking, elevated risks of suicide, depression and anxiety. Given these dire consequences, why aren’t parents — and the village charged with bringing up the child — doing everything possible to create safe places for children? Some of the reports from the World Health Organisation and Unicef that I read on this topic had interesting insights. POOR PARENTING SKILLS Three factors stood out: Some people have poor parenting skills. They don’t know what is good for their children nor the priority that the needs of their children should take. Secondly, for some parents there is no emotional connection with their offspring. To provide a wholesome, safe environment for children, the heart must be in it. To a large number of people, the consuming passion of their lives is climbing the career and social ladder and the making of big sums of money. All the emotions they should be feeling for their children are displaced and invested elsewhere. FAMILY Third is dysfunction in the family. If the mother and father spend a long time clobbering each other, separation and divorce are not too far off. And as the blows are flying, who knows where one will land? In any case, when parents are consumed by hatred and ill-will for each other, there are chances of the children being neglected. What about the village? EXTREME POVERTY According to these reports, violence against children is to be expected in societies which are unequal — extreme poverty in the face of great riches, disempowered women and tyrant men, total inability by some to access opportunities and a wealth of opportunities for others. Inequality breeds injustice not just for adults but for children too. Secondly, the question of social protection. In a community with no mechanism for reducing vulnerability to poverty and other risks in life, chances are, families will fall on hard times and when they do the children will pay the price both in terms of material deprivation and exposure to higher risks of violence. And if the law is not enforced, a climate of impunity encourages preying on the weak and predatory behaviour among perverts. Thus, in Murang’a, a local chief will intimidate a family complaining about the defilement and killing of their child. The killer is emboldened to continue offending. In any case, impunity creates opportunity for crime. THUGS Finally, when people get to a point where violence is normal and expected, children are not safe. Thus, when you lose the election, you bring out thugs to brutalise voters. When you are unhappy with your tenants, you hire thugs to burn their property. When the teacher does something that you don’t like, you go beat him up. Violence becomes the solution to all of life’s problems. So when your child does not do well in school, you beat them up. What, in the life of a society, can be more important than the protection of children? The planning of their future. The hunt for their school fees and their protection from the dangers of life. Why have Kenyans become like snakes — vicious, hostile, ruthless and totally capable of eating anything, including their own children? What is the source of this extreme selfishness, which has robbed us of our humanity and is now undermining our capacity to survive?  mmutuma@ke.nationmedia.com  