There is no doubt Savings and Credit Cooperative Organisations (Saccos) are playing an important role in our economy. They offer low interest rates on loans, high returns on deposits, lower insurance premiums and provide great investment opportunities. They also help build a cash reserve. Saccos have become popular because they are easy to form. Members are also relieved from the fear of attachment of their private properties in case the society suffers financial losses or goes bankrupt because of the principle of limited liability. VOTING RIGHTS However, despite their centrality, Saccos have continued to face a myriad of challenges, which are curtailing their work, which eventually limit growth to their members. The latest onslaught is the move to review the law to introduce, into the Saccos, strangers who are likely to take key roles in management. We fear losing control over our investments, especially because the proposed changes touch on membership, voting rights and investment decisions of societies. The strangers will enjoy the right to attend and participate in AGMs and will also be allowed to vote. They will also have the privilege of being elected into organs of the society. But the question stakeholders are asking Why would anyone want to introduce people who have not been part of the growth of the sector and give them control over members’ savings? AGAINST CHANGES The changes proposed to the Co-operative Societies Act and the Sacco Societies Act will see the Cabinet Secretary, by way of an ordinary resolution, create the ‘social impact members’ who shall not be subject to the primary and normal requirements that each member is expected to subscribe to, including purchasing a given number of shares to be admitted into membership of a Sacco. This means the strangers will have more rights than the investors. We fear these people will unfairly gain from the sweat of our members who are also likely to lose control over their savings and ownership of cooperative societies. Kenya has more than 20,000 unions and societies with an asset base of Sh780 billion. We believe the ‘social impact members’ and their masters are after this money. That is why we are against the changes that were proposed early this year. MONEY LAUNDERING Saccos operate on several principles, including democratic management, where a co-operative society is managed by the elected members from and among themselves. All members have equal rights and are equally important to the society. We should not allow strangers to destroy this spirit. Even worse is the fact that the sponsor(s) of the proposed amendments is not known. This raises further questions over the motives behind these changes. Scepticism has greeted the proposal also because the new group will get special treatment at the expense of the original members. We also feel cartels and individuals want to clean ill-gotten money and they think they can use Saccos to do this. FOREIGN EXCHANGE One of the reasons Saccos are being attacked is the perception that they are poorly managed. It is this perception that has seen the government lock them out of key revenue generating business such as trading in Forex, and distribution of tax money and national payment system. The decision is unfair as it has denied them business opportunities and a chance to grow through diversification. In July 2016, Kenya’s financial watchdog, the Capital Markets Authority, issued a new regulation that foreign dealers wishing to trade in Kenya will be required to maintain an equivalent of the Sh50 million capital. Many Saccos have met this and other requirements but the government won’t let then engage in foreign exchange. LIQUIDITY CHALLENGES We are also unhappy that the government has refused to admit Saccos into the National Payments System, which are conduits through which buyers and sellers of financial products and services make transactions. They are an important component of a country’s financial system. Some of the borrowers have their accounts in commercial banks. Saccos are forced to deposit the money into their commercial banks accounts yet the same banks cannot make payments through Saccos because they are not in the payments system. This has seen Saccos lose their liquidity. Saccos end up paying higher rates to borrow the same money from the banks when they have liquidity challenges. Yet Saccos are some the most highly regulated institutions in Kenya. The Sacco Societies Regulatory Authority, the Cooperatives Act and the Central Bank of Kenya regulate Sacco activities. Based on the above observations, these regulatory frameworks can also be enhanced if at all that is required to ensure Sacco’s thrive. CHANGING LIVES In terms of efficiency, Saccos are top as their management structures start all the way from the grassroots to the national level. Therefore, I don’t see why they should be denied an opportunity to do business. Instead of punishing them, the government should view Saccos as development partners by creating an enabling environment for them to work. The government has been subjecting to double taxation - taxing dividends given to members as well as the societies’ income. This is unfair and should stop for Saccos to grow and continue changing the lives of Kenyans. Mr Kabugu is the chairman of Unaitas Sacco Society  