A man has been sentenced to life in prison for defiling his daughter aged six in Awendo, Migori County. Rongo Principal Magistrate Raymond Lang’at said that evidence produced in court proved beyond reasonable doubt that the accused committed the offence. "Having carefully considered all the evidence in record and having been guided by the relevant principles of law, this court has proven beyond reasonable doubt and consequently convinced that the accused person is guilty under Section 8(1)(2) of the Sexual Offences Act and as by law required, he is hereby sentenced to life imprisonment," Mr Lang'at ruled. The accused is said to have committed the act in his house on May 6, 2018. MOTHER AWAY Police officer Catherine Nelima who investigated the case told the court that the accused took advantage of the absence of the girl’s mother and lured her into the act. "The mother of the victim had left the home to her ancestral home where she spent the night. The accused took advantage and committed the act at night. The neighbours realised the girl had difficulties walking and reported to the police,” said Ms Nelima. At Awendo Sub-County Hospital, the victim was assessed by doctors who confirmed that she had been defiled. "The girl was brought here and from our initial assessment, it was evident that she had been sexually molested," said Mrs Catherine Otaigo, the clinical officer at the hospital. JUSTICE DONE The girl’s mother said that she was happy that the court had done justice. "I cannot believe the man I call my husband and father of my child could do this. I am happy that at last justice has been served," said the mother, who was the complainant in the case. The case brings to five, the number of people who have been sentenced to life imprisonment in the last three months in Rongo and Awendo sub-counties. Children rights activists in the region say the number signifies a rise in defilement cases in the region. "This clearly indicates the rise in cases of defilement in this region, which calls for action. We are happy that court's judgment will serve as a deterrent," said Mrs Mercy Akinyi, a child rights activist.  