Vihiga Governor Wilber Ottichilo has suffered a major setback after the county assembly voted to impeach two executives over alleged misappropriation of public funds meant for sporting activities in various wards. During a special sitting on Monday, the assembly also voted to suspend two chief officers to allow for the formation of a probe committee to investigate their actions in the illegal transfer of Sh18.8 million into a private mobile wallet account. FINANCE AND SPORTS Those affected by the impeachment are Finance Executive Alfred Indeche and his Sports counterpart Marita Agufana. Further, Finance Chief Officer Livingston Imbayi and his Sports counterpart Clement Manyulu will be forced to stay in the cold to allow for investigations into their role in the transfer of the funds. All the 38 MCAs were in the assembly during the session. While moving the impeachment motion, Gisambai MCA Eric Odei accused Ms Agufana of sanctioning the transfer of funds contrary to Section 119 of the Public Finance Management Act. PRIVATE ACCOUNT Mr Odei said the Sports executive told the Trade Committee that she was keeping the money "safely" in a private account to prevent the funds from being taken back by the National Treasury upon expiry of the 2017/2018 financial year. "She was holding misappropriated funds upon the expiry of a financial year. This is conspiracy to defraud," said Mr Odei. During the session, Shamakhokho MCA Douglas Beru accused the Finance executive of authorising unlawful transfer of the money to a private account. "The Finance CEC authorised unlawful holding of funds withdrawn from the county exchequer accounts," said Mr Masini. He went on: "The Finance minister failed to stop the Sports department from illegally transferring public funds to private accounts." During the session that lasted over two hours, Majority Leader Wycliffe Masini said removal of the officers would allow room for further investigations. Mr Odei said the decision to impeach the officials should not be taken as a sign of bad blood between the assembly and executive.  