Long before he came up with his 'Big Four' agenda for his second and final five-year term that ends in 2022, President Uhuru Kenyatta had food security way up on his list of priorities. Of course, the other three he hopes will, alongside boosting agriculture, help cement his legacy, are promoting manufacturing to create more jobs, expanding health coverage and increasing housing. Early in his first term, the President moved with haste to lay the foundation of a comprehensive effort to boost agriculture. And he was pretty sure that with rain-fed agriculture becoming very tricky and unreliable, irrigation held the key to ensuring sufficient food stocks for all Kenyans. Ironically, it is this what now presents a major setback to President Kenyatta's leadership. The potential for irrigation in the Tana River delta has never been in doubt. CROP PRODUCTION Indeed, when the Jubilee government sought to boost food crop production, there was no better place than in this region and the leadership was only too willing to make available resources to have another go at irrigation, the failure of the Hola Irrigation Scheme several decades earlier, notwithstanding. A 10,000-acre model farm at the Galana Kulalu irrigation project was envisaged as the showcase of the new venture and President Kenyatta and his deputy, Mr William Ruto, officiated at the launch to affirm their commitment to the project. But several years down the line, and with billions of shillings sank into the project, there has not been any return to speak about. In fact, the project has been a monumental flop and the mounting threat of food insecurity is a mockery of the very top leadership. CORRUPTION To make matters worse, the Auditor-General is now questioning the Sh7 billion loan for the project that was signed on terms he is convinced were not in the best interest of the Kenyan taxpayer. In other words, there is an echo of the scourge of corruption that has be ubiquitous in the public sector. The blame game between the National Irrigation Scheme and the National Treasury over the deal cannot mask the fact that there is something untoward here. Also appalling is the resulting wanton wastage of public resources. It all, however, boils down to a letdown of the President and the people by officials, who should have used their expertise to give proper advice instead of forging ahead with a lousy project. The time has come to take drastic action against officials who fail in their duties leading to such huge public losses.  