I woke up in sweat from a dream recently. I dreamt that I got in a matatu and only realised that I had no cash to pay for my fare. I panicked because I knew I was going to be thrown off. I had cash money for fare as it was all in my M-Pesa account. When I loiter the world where people just swipe for fare, coffee and sweets, I get confused when I return to Kenya. In reality, I have walked to the bus stage many times waiting for my matatu and then realise that M-Pesa can’t be swiped and the conductor won’t be merciful to me having no cash. Then I have to run around looking for M-Pesa kiosks to get some cash for Matatu fare to help me get to my destination. Do you now understand my anxious dream? I shared this frustration with friends in Nairobi and asked why we don’t have a pre-payment system that we can use when travelling. I can dream, you see. SWINDLE MATATU OWNERS They said it will never see the light of day. Cash means the touts can have control of what to charge passengers and what they can swindle from matatu owners. It is, therefore, evident matatu crews’ side earnings look like one of the things that inspire the chaotic way we travel. The other is the mode of transport itself. We have seen how we get piled together like chapati in mini vans. Where the seats were meant for six people, you now have 15 seats squeezed together for maximum profit. The vans are mostly unroadworthy and devoid of any health and safety measures for passengers. Essentially, they are a disaster waiting to happen. When one day we got told off for being slow in getting off the matatu, I asked my friends why we allow to be tortured this way. MUSCLE POWER Mind you, it takes muscle power and the greatest sense of tact to squeeze between the narrow aisles while being screamed at by a tout on ‘speed’. My friends said it is too late to try to change the matatu culture; also, ‘cartels’ run the matatus. I have had a long and hard look at the whole cartel mantra that has now become part of our lingua franca. Not a day passes without these cartels being mentioned as the source of all our problems. Talk of embezzlement, lack of water and medicine, the nightmare that is matatu and now an influx of contraband. Now, then, what is ‘cartel’? I had to ask since it is a word that sounds benign but leaves you with this sense that it is the most lethal concept in our country right now. According to the Oxford dictionary, cartel is “an association of manufacturers or suppliers with the purpose of maintaining prices at a higher level and restricting competition”. This means, then, our use of the word in the context of purging corruption is all wrong. We understand things were supplied but nothing was delivered, as told by one of the beneficiaries in ‘Cartel-land’. Those behind the NYS scam do not qualify to be defined as such. By their own admission, they neither manufactured nor supplied anything for the millions that they were paid. They are simply thieves. THIEVES My issue is on how we perceive and treat cartels. We handle with kid gloves issues relating to cartels when, in fact, a lot of those are criminal acts worthy of long prison sentences. The only difference between a ‘cartel’ (read thief) and your pickpocket or burglar is the amount they steal. The petty thief could, perhaps, just run away with your wallet while the ‘cartel’ wipes your bank account, starves you by fiddling maize supplies and destroys your child’s future by running down schools and youth programmes through embezzlement. The intriguing factor in Kenya is the difference in anger towards ‘cartels’. When we should be enraged and fight them tooth and nail, we don’t! Instead, we turn a blind eye due to fear or because we are beneficiaries of the thievery. Many of us have seen a handbag thief beaten to a pulp and at times even set on fire and left for dead — or died. We are nowhere near that angry with cartels. VIOLENCEOur disproportionate reaction to cartels speaks volumes and challenges our moral stand on corruption. I am not advocating violence but we should, in fact, be seething with rage when it comes to ‘cartels’. They are not the businessmen or women they claim to be; they are just greedy, thieving crooks. ‘Cartels’ are just corrupt individuals who are damaging our moral and socio-economic fabric in a way nothing else ever will. They make our lives nasty, brutish and short through lawlessness and fear. Don’t blame the handbag snatcher; he, too, is a victim of cartels who took away his right to school and employment by looting from colleges and running down industries. Our anger is misplaced if we stop directing it at ‘cartels’ but turn it on a helpless matatu tout instead. He is also a victim of cartel(-ism) like the rest of us and a ‘cartel’ is nothing but a crooked thief. Ms Guyo is a legal researcher in Kenya and the United Kingdom. kaltum@hotmail.com  