The family of Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o has yet again moved to court in a fresh battle over inheritance. Mr Ken Odhiambo Okuthe, on behalf of his three siblings, filed a case at the Mombasa High Court accusing Ms Mary Awiti of taking over an estate of their deceased sister, Millicent Akinyi Nyong’o, under pretence that the deceased did not have any surviving siblings. Mrs Awiti is the first-born sister of Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o, the father of Oscar-winning actress Lupita Nyong'o. Mr Okuthe’s mother, Margaret Owuor Dick (deceased), is also the governor’s sister. DISINHERITED In court papers seen by the Nation, Mr Okuthe, on behalf of his siblings Dorcas Adhiambo, Caroline Atieno and Samuel Otieno, seeks a revocation of the special grant of letters of administration (intestate) issued to their aunt over their deceased sister’s house on land parcel LR31067 in Kiembeni, Mombasa. Millicent worked with the Postal Corporation of Kenya in Mombasa and died in August 17, 2004. In their prayers, Mr Okuthe, through Kipkorir and Company Advocates, wants the respondent to provide the accounts for the estate and an injunction issued restraining the respondent, alone or with others, from interfering or making any further dealings pertaining the grant. They also want her to refund monies (rent) collected on behalf of the late with interest. In an interview with the Nation, Mr Okuthe said they had been disinherited and defrauded, yet Governor Nyong’o, who is the family head, had been reluctant to help them. SH200 MILLION “I raised the Mombasa estate issue with the governor, and all he would tell me was that Mary was just an administrator. Considering that I am 51 years old and my youngest sister is 36 years, for how long will my auntie hold onto it?” He posed. The case was to be heard on May 22, 2018, but the respondent did not appear in court. The Next hearing is set for September 2. Yet another court battle over inheritance is already at the Kisumu Law Courts. In the suit, Mr Okuthe and his cousin Geoffrey Omondi sued Prof Nyong’o and his sister, Dr Nyagoy Nyong’o (administrators of their grandfather’s estate), for leaving out their mothers (Margaret Awuor Dick and Judith Nyong’o, who were both daughters of the senior Nyong’o) from the list of beneficiaries of an estate valued at over Sh200 million at the time of opening the trust.   Governor's relatives they have been disinherited and defrauded