Expectations were high when Kenya Sevens descended on San Francisco, USA for the Rugby World Cup Sevens with the team having reached the semi-finals at the previous 2009 Dubai and 2013 Moscow. Kenya Sevens had claimed its maiden victory at the World Rugby Sevens Series, winning Singapore Sevens in 2016 before reaching the Cup finals in Canada and Hong Kong Sevens last season. With the format changing from the usual pool stages, the knockout championship that started at the pre-round of 16 presented a difficult yet interesting event. The seeded teams got a wild card to the round of 16 and Kenya wasn't among them. However, it took a few moments of madness to have Kenya Sevens dream of lifting their maiden the World Cup tumbling down. Kenya Sevens squandered their 26-0 in the last four minutes lose to Scotland 31-26 fail to reach the quarterfinals. Kenya Sevens still had victory within sight but the tragic and heartbreaking when Samuel Oliech and Samuel Njenga were sin-binned in quick succession to let Scotland, who were trailing 26-17 at the death, to win. The Scots quickly cashed in on their numbers with Jamie Farndale scoring a brace, with his last coming off a penalty try. Jamie Fergusson converted both to give them victory. Kenya stormed to first half's 14-0 lead when Eden Agero converted William Ambaka and Jeffrey Oluoch's tries. Then Collins Injera extended the lead 21-0 with a try that Oliech converted before Oluoch sealed a brace for a comfortable 28-0 lead with four minutes of play remaining. Scotland's wheels started to turn nicely with good attack as Harvey Elms and Scott Riddell in 11th and 13th minutes score a try each. Jamie Farndale went over as Fergusson converted one as they inched closer 26-19. Then Oliech and Njenga were sin-binned, and with two men off the pitch the pressure took tall on Kenya. Farndale would complete his brace as Fergusson nailed the conversion to level the game at 26-26 before the Scots got a penalty try to win. The results saw Kenya, who had earlier beaten Tonga 19-7, drop to Challenge Trophy quarterfinals where they were to face Ireland at 12.04 am on Sunday. Injera, who was making his third World Cup appearance, said it was heartbreaking to have lost to Scotland. “We played a fantastic first half but we let ourselves down in the second half,” said Injera on his Facebook page. Injera said they take it as a learning experience and build on them. “We have done plenty of good things this season and there is still more left to play for. So chin up boys,” said Injera as he rallied the team to finish their assignment in San Francisco. “We still have another opportunity to play the game that we love and make good memories. Let's renew our enthusiasm, refocus our energy and our goals," said Injera. Scotland stormed the Championship quarterfinals where they were due to take on South Africa, who had silenced Ireland 45-7. In other Championship quarters, USA were up against England, Argentina was to face Fiji while France had defending champion New Zealand.   “I have no words to explain this game.”