The levels of lead concentration at Owino Ouru slum in Changamwe constituency is 53 times the accepted maximum of 1,200 milligrams per kilogramme (mg/kg), a court was told. Former Deputy Government Chemist Wandera Bideru said lead concentration in soil and dust samples from the slum were extremely high and dangerous. “We were shocked by the revelation that up to 64,000 mg/kg of the metal was present in soil and dust samples. These levels are extremely high,” he told Environment and Lands Court Judge Ann Omollo. He said the samples were taken from several houses and surrounding areas, including play grounds. COMPENSATION The highest concentration was in samples taken from the local metal refinery and its compound, he said. Mr Wandera was testifying in a case in which victims of lead poisoning are demanding compensation from the government for damage caused to their health and loss of life. They also want a declaration made on their right to a clean and healthy environment. The victims have also sued the Attorney-General, county government, cabinet secretaries for Environment and Health, as well as the National Environment Management Authority, Export Processing Zones Authority, Metal Refinery (EPZ) Ltd and Penguin Paper and Book Company. INVESTIGATION They claim that Metal Refinery started operations in 2007 and its processes include, but are not limited to, purchase of old lead batteries, breaking and separating their parts, feeding them into a smelter, and packaging and exporting the finished products. Mr Wandera, who represented the Ministry of Health in investigating lead poisoning in the slum, said a report he prepared together with officials from the county government and National Environmental Management Authority (Nema) was accurate. “The levels of lead in the victims' houses were unacceptable,” he added. In their report titled Lead Exposure in Owino Ouru, Mr Wandera said tests showed the level of lead in the soil was hazardous and toxic. DEAD TREE He said the machine used to analyse the soil, water and dust samples was the latest technology in the market for the job. “The tests were done twice and the results were the same. Shockingly, samples taken from piped water used in the area produced negative results. The committee then concluded that the source of lead poisoning was the metal refinery plant,” he said. Mr Wandera said a tree near the refinery's chimney had dried up since there was no filter. The emissions from burning batteries were gaseous, he noted. The hearing continues on November 28 and 29.   Industrial waste, sewage and emissions from cars and industries putting millions in danger.