The Kiambu ward representative who early this month lost close to Sh2 million from his phone-based and conventional bank accounts nearly a month ago has gotten almost all his money back. By Thursday evening, Ms Stanley Kiarie from Ikinu Ward said he had been refunded a total of Sh1.773 million out of the Sh1.873 million which was fraudulently withdrawn from his two bank accounts on July 3 and July 4, 2018 after his Sim card was swapped. The money, according to the MCA, is being returned in installments to the respective accounts by the bank, which appears to have taken responsibility for the fraud. The incident has been under investigation for the last two weeks. “The money is being deposited as though it’s a transaction reverse. It’s being done in installments that are almost equal to the fraudulent withdrawals,” Mr Kiaire told Saturday Nation, noting that some of the refunds are of Sh50,000. SUSPECTS ARRESTED But he is yet to get a refund of approximately Sh41,000 which was also withdrawn from his phone-based account. “Had my Sim card not been swapped, the fraudsters would not have accessed my bank accounts. A member of staff at the bank was used to generate my personal account’s PIN, and also edit my joint account’s data to link it with the swapped line,” he said. The Sim card, which was swapped on July 3 while he was in Israel, was used to withdraw Sh339,000 from his personal account via mobile banking transfer and also command transaction of Sh1.5 million from the joint account, which was wired to accounts in other banks. The fraud is reported to have been orchestrated by, among other suspects, the bank official in collusion with a former customer care executive at a mobile service provider, both of whom have since been arrested. On Tuesday week, detectives from Central Police Station, where the MCA reported the matter, arrested Joseph Kuria, 27, from Uthiru, Grace Wanjiru, 39, from Kahawa Wendani and Mishack Okoth Okuta, 33, from Umoja Two.   Police closing in on two more suspects believed to be part of the SIM swap crime network.