Security agencies in Lamu County on Thursday intensified their crackdown on suspected Al-Shabaab militants who killed one police officer and injured two others during an attack. The assault that happened between Ndeu and Milihoi on the Lamu-Garsen road on Thursday saw a private motor vehicle which was heading to Lamu being burnt during the ambush. The vehicle is said to have had two occupants on board, but police say the two managed to escape unhurt though their whereabouts are unknown. Lamu Administration Police Coordinating Commander Charles Mbatu said the search was concentrated within Milihoi and areas towards the Boni forest where the militants are said to have fled to shortly after the 2.45pm attack. TRAFFIC During the attack, a police Toyota Land Cruiser with five officers was also razed by the heavily armed militants. The vehicle was returning to Mpeketoni police base in Lamu West after transporting prisoners to Hindi GK Prison. “It is true. One officer died while two others were injured during the fire exchange with the attackers at Milihoi. "The police Land Cruiser and another personal vehicle were razed down. The crackdown is still on and we will give updates later,” Mr Mbatu said Thursday. The attack also paralysed transport for hours on the Lamu-Garsen road as a convoy of buses that was heading to Lamu from Mombasa had to be turned back to Mkunumbi, following a heavy shootout that was ongoing between security agencies and the suspected Shabaab militants. PS KILLED Milihoi is a notorious terror hotspot on the Lamu-Garsen road where hordes of security officers and civilians, including the former Public Works PS Mariam El Maawy, her niece and four bodyguards lost their lives at the hands of suspected Shabaab militia. The incident happened on July 13, 2017. The latest attack occurred just metres away from a recently established GSU camp. The camp is among the many security camps established by the national government in all terror hotspots on the Lamu-Garsen road early this year.   The officers were taken to Mpeketoni Sub-County Hospital.