Politicians sharpen their funeral speeches; mourners wear out their throats. For death, the reaper, has sharpened her sickle yet again. Who but death would muster courage to steal the tongue of a man worth a million words? A man who spread seeds of unity, love and compassion every step of the way? Everyone called him Ben. From the Ker (President of the Luo) and his council of elders with their words of wisdom to the children playing games of innocence and cooing the mouth of babes. Death, the reaper, has sharpened her sickle. Who but death would have the courage to steal a million words from a man’s tongue and silence him forever? UNIQUE STORY I first met Ben Oluoch Okello more than 40 years ago in Kisumu when he would visit my parents’ Kibigori Eating Room on his way from Nairobi to Migori to eat traditional Luo meals. He was always accompanied by colleagues Agawo Patrobas and Noel Okoth “Papa”. They sampled fried fish, aliya (dried meat), aluru (quail) and osuga (managu) and discussed politics. I was to meet Ben again on and off many times in the course of our work as journalists. But my most vivid memory of Ben was in 2011 when he called to tell me about a unique story that could run as a radio and newspaper feature. Ben had a great nose for news and while at a communications class at the University of Nairobi, his nostrils picked the scent of a story from a fellow student in his class. This was a young girl from Takawiri Island in Suba, off the shores of Lake Victoria. She had against all odds become the first girl in her region to make it to university. IMPORTANT AUDIENCE Young girls aged 11 and 15 had children and had married their classmates — boys their age. The child mothers would while away the time in the beaches begging fishermen to buy them soap. The fishermen exploited their vulnerability, impregnating them and the circle would continue. Later, when he introduced me to the girl at Ramogi Studios in Nairobi, Ben said he was deeply hurt that most radio stations in Takawiri only picked signals from Uganda and Tanzania and that he could not reach this important audience. “If I have to carry my words in a boat and take them to Takawiri physically, I would do so,” he pledged. These are the kind of stories Ben did and which endeared him to the people. He was keen to expose vulnerable situations and peoples and soon his listeners saw in him a saviour who would bring salvation and change to his people. And he did not fail them. PUNCTUALITY Ben had a soft spot for the Bible owing to his Adventist upbringing. He could hardly finish a sentence without backing it up with a biblical quote. This is one of the ways in which he effectively wooed the Christian community with his programme, Chamo Muma, where he rewarded those who were conversant with the Bible with free copies. He loved songs by the popular gospel artiste, Eunice Ogoma, specifically Ng’uonone e momiyo pod ang’ima (I am alive because of God’s grace) — which he played at the start of his early morning devotions. This song became a Christian anthem among Luo listeners. Ben staged a coup on village roosters with his early morning programme, Kogwen gi BOO (Crack of Dawn with BOO). Listeners no longer waited for the cock to wake them up in the morning. They believed once Ben Chieng’-ja-Mondo (Early rising sun) was in the studios, the day had begun. He was the epitome of punctuality and inspired many to start off the day on a positive note. Ben acknowledged the power that he had on his audience but his humility was so deep that he would not let power get into his head. DEVOLUTION Ben’s punctuality was, however, put to the test one day. He narrated to me how he arrived in class late while at the University of Nairobi. He was a mature student and shuffled between Radio Ramogi and class. The young lecturer warned him not to come back to his class next time he was late. His humility was such that instead of bragging that he had been interviewing a VIP in the studio, he smiled, apologised and said, “I am sorry, it will not happen again.” It did not happen again. Ben had a special interest in devolution and used his talk show to host leaders who explained how devolution would work and benefit Nyanza. He educated his listeners on the new Constitution, affirmative action and broke down complex issues in layman’s language. When I told him about my interview with Rarieda market women some years back and how they told me Raila had already read the Constitution for them so they would not read it, Ben was very disappointed. He vowed to ensure he educated women through the media and pushed for adult education. NURTURE SEEDS Ben loved his four wives Elizabeth Atieno, Phoebe Akoth (both deceased), Ruth Oluoch and Helen Achieng and 27 children. He also took care of his deceased siblings’ orphans and many other adopted children. Ben’s battle with cancer escalated soon after he was elected senator for Migori last August. He died on the morning of June 19 at MP Shah Hospital Nairobi and was buried at Kanyimach in Rongo, Migori on July 9. Ben will be remembered alongside his colleagues Agawo Patrobas and Nyakwar Kira for his contribution to the development of modern Luo language through such words as ogirimiti (agreement or memorandum of understanding), chukdar (watchman), ong’we yamo (Internet), nyakalondo (radio), ong’ielo orengo, and oleng’o lewe (died), jopuonjre mag mbalariany (university students), ngire (professor). Others are medusa (engineer), mbetre (ambassador), omuom or manyonge (money) and aguch mula mar miibadhi (Goldenberg scandal). These words united the community and empowered the youth. So, yes, death cannot steal Ben’s legacy — his words live on. He planted them tenderly and they will flourish in every heart that nurtures the seeds. In this new column we welcome readers to share with us information on people who’ve died recently and who they think made a mark in society in whatever sphere of life. Write-ups should not exceed 1,000 words. The editor reserves the right to choose those that will be published. No payment shall be made for material published. Send your story to sundaynation@ke.nationmedia.com   He will be remembered for his role in deveploment of modern Luo.