Parliament has been thrown into a dilemma after President Uhuru Kenyatta nominated nine individuals to be ambassadors without indicating their duty stations. The National Assembly Committee on Defence and Foreign Relations will once again have the disadvantage of vetting nominees without the benefit of knowing where they will be posted. And even though the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has welcomed the nominations of Ms Sarah Serem, Mr Ndegwa Muhoro, Lt-Gen Samuel Thuita, Mr Manoah Esipisu, Mr Paddy Ahenda, Mr Peter Oginga Ogego, Mr Johnson Ondieki, Mr Chris Mburu and Mr Benjamin Langat for appointment to serve in the Kenyan foreign missions, several members of the committee yesterday expressed reservations with the manner it was done, arguing that without duty stations, the vetting exercise will be more complicated. CLARIFICATION “It is just bad manners for this kind of thing to keep on happening,” an opposition MP who sits on the committee told the Sunday Nation yesterday. “It is only fair that the name of the nominee should be submitted to Parliament accompanied by the designated stations they will serve so that the committee can ask relevant questions.” In March, the committee found itself in a similar dilemma when the President picked former MPs Wilfred Machage and Mohamed Shidiye, former Principal Secretary Richard Ekai and former CEO of Kenya Urban Roads Authority John Oguna for appointment to serve as ambassadors but did not indicate their postings. While Mr Oguna turned down the appointment, citing personal commitments, the matter on whether the committee could successfully vet nominees without indicating the stations has vexed some of the committee members. The committee wrote to the Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua seeking clarification on the nominations and bringing to his attention that the only way they could proceed was for the executive to indicate the stations in which they were to serve. PRESIDENTIAL However, in a strange twist, the committee made an about turn and went on to vet the three — Dr Machage, Mr Ekai and Mr Shidiye. Similarly, questions persist on the fate of the three nominees; while some accounts suggest that they are still waiting for the next available space in the diplomatic service before they are deployed, the chairman of the committee Katoo ole Metito insists that they have all reported. Mr Metito says Dr Machage is the new high commissioner in Nigeria, Mr Ekai is in Moscow, while Mr Shidiye is the high commissioner in Botswana. Mr Metito told the Sunday Nation that in the presidential system of government such as Kenya’s, there is nothing wrong with the President submitting names to the National Assembly without indicating the stations of the nominees. CONSULATES “It is within his constitutional powers and in line with the relevant international conventions especially the Vienna Conventions on diplomatic relations,” he said. “We deliberated on the matter as a committee and we concluded that there is no law or regulation that requires the President to submit a specific station for his nominees,” Metito said yesterday. Gilgil MP Martha Wangari yesterday welcomed the appointments, saying there are so many vacant positions in Kenya’s diplomatic service which will be filled by the nine. “There are many missions without the substantive heads. And you should also know that we are opening new missions across Africa and Asia,” Ms Wangari said. The ministry has announced plans to open 16 more diplomatic missions in Africa and Asia in the next three years. Kenya would open six full resident missions in Accra, Abidjan, Djibouti, Maputo and Rabat, four consulates in Goma, Lagos, Arusha and Cape Town and two liaison offices in Kismayu and Hargeisa. In Asia, Kenya will open a resident mission in Jakarta and consulates in Mumbai, Guangzhou and Shanghai.  