IN MOSCOW Russia is hosting the most expensive edition of the Fifa World Cup in the history of the tournament. A total of $13 billion (Sh1.3 trillion) has gone into getting the venues ready and hosting the tournament, since Russia won the bid to host the tournament on December 2, 2010. Two years earlier, Luzhniki Stadium in Moscow had hosted the final of Europe’s top club competition, the Uefa Champions League. The 2008 Uefa Champions League final was an all-English affair between Manchester United and Chelsea, which Sir Alex Ferguson’s Red Devils won 6-5 on penalties after a 1-1 draw in 120 minutes.   Russia's Allexey Sorokin was a project leader for that match, and that role would prepare him for bigger duties as he was appointed the Chief Executive Officer of the Russian Football Union the same year. So when Russia won the bid to host the World Cup, Sorokin, a graduate of Moscow State Linguistic University and State Diplomacy who also speaks fluent English and French, was naturally appointed the chairman and chief executive officer of the 2018 Fifa World Cup Local Organising Committee. The 2018 World Cup Local Organising Committee (LOC) was set up by the Russian government and the Russian Football Federation in January 2011, and was tasked with planning and staging of the 2017 Fifa Confederations Cup and the 2018 Fifa World Cup. On basis of analytical skills, personal qualities, and command of English, the LOC selected 17,404 volunteers, some of them meant for VIP areas, and trained them to serve in the tournament. The sight of young men and women dressed in maroon tops and blue trousers meets you everywhere in the 11 host cities. Volunteers applied to be selected for both 2017 Fifa Confederations Cup and 2018 Fifa World Cup through Fifa’s website between June 1, 2016 and December 30, 2016.     With 98 per cent of the tickets reserved for the group matches already sold, the soft-spoken but firm Sorokin heaved a sigh of relief at the conclusion of the group stage matches at a packed press conference at Luzhniki Stadium on June 29. “We have never had so many people visiting our country like this, so this is a first for us, but we are doing our best. The Local Organising Committee is happy with the way things have gone so far,” the 46-year-old said in Moscow in the company of Colin Smith, Fifa’s chief tournament and events officer. Some 48 matches out of a total of 64 had been played, and 24 teams out of an original number of 32 had been sent packing, leaving eight to battle it out in the quarter-finals of the competition on Friday and Saturday. “We are getting good feedback from teams. All indicators are that we have had a successful tournament so far. Everything is going according to plan. From the planning stage to this moment, there has been enthusiasm from Russia in hosting this tournament. It is fantastic to see fans enjoying the action, Brazilian and Mexican fans mingling in the metro stations and people from different nationalities grouping together to enjoy football. I am not surprised that Russia has succeeded. It is good to see this,” Smith said. According to statistics released by Fifa, some 2,178,894 people had accessed the stadium to watch the matches live, among them fans, Fifa partners, delegates, journalists and invited guests. The LOC made strategic decisions regarding the tournament, among them the appointment of volunteers. “We have recruited 17,404 volunteers to helping inside and outside the stadiums, cities and hotels,” Sorokin said. UNSUNG HEROES Volunteers, mostly Russian university students, have been the unsung heroes of the tournament. Mostly working as ushers, stadium stewards, and staff manning the information desk inside media centres, the army of 17,040 volunteers stationed in various places at 12 stadiums in host 11 cities has been making things work like a clockwork, attending to tasks ranging from the mundane to the bizarre. One minute they could be taking turns trying to calm down an enraged girl who has been separated from her parents at the Fan Zone, the next minute they have formed a human shield outside the stadium to keep apart rival sets of fans who, for all of Fifa’s meticulous plans to separate them, are threatening to break into a brawl after a match. While at it, they are expected to be prompt and professional, never mind the language barrier. An unwritten rule is that they are expected to use the tournament to sell their country to the world. Twenty-one-year-old university student Stepanov Epanov from Russia’s Ural region in the boundary of Europe and Asia was selected as a volunteer due to his good mastery of English language. “I have been learning English since I was six years and I have been on holiday with my parents in countries where English is spoken, so the work is easy for me. I have been volunteering since the start of the tournament but my contract ends with the group matches,” Epanov, who is studying Linguistics, tells me inside Spartak Stadium where he is manning the information desk. “I am paid money at the end, so this is good. I will apply to volunteer in other stadiums for knock-out matches once my contract expires.” To Epanov, older people see no need to learn English because they see no use for it in their lives. “In Russia, the school one attends determines whether they learn English or not. However, the older people see no use of learning English because it will not help them in life,” he says. Outside in the fan zone, a man on stilts only identified as Yuri is going about his duties entertaining people from high in the air. He is dressed in a costume that he tells me has colours of flags of countries of all the participating teams. At 11 fan fest areas spread across Russia where fans get to watch matches on giant screens, inside Russia’s impressive network of metro stations, at bus stations and train stations, you find more volunteers who will show you which bus or train to board to connect to your destination. For the first time in the history of the tournament, Video Assistant Referees are being used. There are also Audio Descriptive Commentary areas for the visually impaired.  