Liquor manufacturer London Distillers has opposed construction of a multi-billion shilling residential estate Chinese investor Zeyun Yang plans to put up near its Athi River factory, setting the stage for a fresh feud. The firm, which employs about 800 workers, said the project site is a designated industrial area and therefore unsuitable for construction of 576 family units in 12 apartment blocks on a 7.5-acre parcel of land. Regulatory filings by Erdemann Property Limited (EPL) show that Emma Mureithi, a resident, has also objected to the construction of the homes, citing loss of privacy, garbage and sewerage disposal challenges. However, she welcomed the project, saying it would improve security in the area. The Chinese real estate firm revealed 30-year-old liquor manufacturer’s chairman, Mohan Galot, had also opposed its initial housing project. At the same time, the National Environment Management Authority has issued a 30-day notice for the public to submit written or oral views on the project. Ease housing crisis In Environmental and Impact Assessment Audit report, the project’s lead experts said the construction would ease the housing crisis in Nairobi as well as generate the much-needed jobs and revenue for both county and national governments. “Increased population without commensurate services and facilities, increased pressure on existing infrastructure, air pollution and generation of waste can, however, be mitigated,” reads part of the report. The project located near the Mombasa–Namanga Road interchange in Mavoko sub-county, Machakos will comprise 20 shops within the gated estate as well as 500 parking bays for the residents. Mr Yang launched the rent-to-own business model in 2003 and has since built 2,000 housing units, a mall in Kisumu and several go-downs in Nairobi. READ: Chinese investor to build eight 34-storey apartments in Ngara READ: 60 local and foreign firms bid for Mavoko mass housing project READ: Erdemann to build new Mavoko industrial park  