The government will not pay monetary compensation to fishermen displaced by the Lamu Port South Sudan Ethiopia Transport Corridor Project (Lapsset), instead they will be trained and given modern equipment. Lamu Port Project Manager Peter Oremo said the 4,734 fishermen will receive relevant skills that will enable them to fish in the deep seas. "We are here today meeting the local leadership in a move to clear the air on matters of Lapsset fishers’ compensation. As we all know, the fishermen went to court to demand compensation. "It should however be noted that there will be no monetary compensation...we shall give the fishermen skills and equipment so that they continue with the trade," Mr Oremo said at Majlis Hotel on Wednesday. RIGHTS ABUSED On May 1 this year, the Malindi High Court directed the national government to compensate them Sh1.76 billion for not meeting constitutional and legal requirements before approving the undertaking. The court found that the government violated the community’s cultural rights and the right to a clean and healthy environment when they started the construction. Mr Oremo said the Lamu Port Authority is in the process of engaging the local leadership and the fishermen further before the compensation process begins before the end of the year. The fishermen will be given medium-sized fishing vessels equipped with contemporary fishing aid, refrigerated trucks and outboard engines. JUSTICE Governor Fahim Twaha thanked the Lapsset management for ensuring the rights of the fishermen are safeguarded. "We are happy that finally justice has prevailed for the Lamu fishermen. The court directed that those fishermen be compensated," Mr Twaha said. Fishing is a profitable activity in the region. For example, production for the year 2015 in Lamu was estimated at 2,240 metric tonnes valued at Sh420 million against a potential of 40,000 metric tonnes valued at Sh7.5 billion. Thus, the county's economy is likely to be affected by the Sh2.5 trillion project at Kililana in Lamu West.   They want the money increased from the current Sh1.76 billion to at least Sh3 billion.