The chairperson of the Kenya Women Parliamentary Association (Kewopa) Wangui Ngirichi has opposed a proposal to scrap the woman representative’s post. Instead, the Kirinyaga woman rep is calling for an evaluation of the gains the post has brought to the country. She was speaking at St Mary's Catholic Church during a fundraiser for the Catholic Women Association. Responding to the Constitutional Amendment Bill by her Uasin Gishu counterpart Gladys Boss Shollei, Ms Ngirichi said the seat has brought a big impact in the society as it is the only one that is felt strongly on the ground and abolishing it is not wise. SHOLLEI BILL Ms Shollei has tabled the Bill in parliament seeking to scrap the position and increase the number of women in Parliament through election instead of party nominations. The Bill proposes the pairing of constituencies to form one constituency that will be reserved solely for women. The existing constituencies will be vied for by both genders. But according to Ms Ngirichi, scrapping the post would offend an established process where both the leaders and the electorate come closer through the woman representative’s seat. EVALUATE GAINS “I can’t fight a Bill that has been brought forward by my colleague but I would [urge] the leader and members of public at large to re-evaluate the gains made by the seat. “To me, this is the only seat that reaches the ground through the small kitty given to women representatives and a better way of helping the voters is by enhancing it,” Ms Ngirichi said. Ms Ngirichi, at the same time, downplayed claims that she is against lifestyle audit for public servants, saying there is a need to establish a law that would explain the process. “I don’t fear lifestyle audit and I’m ready at any given time but we must create a framework in the National Assembly that will guide the process,” said Ms Ngirichi. The woman representative noted that currently, there is no framework that defines how the life style audit should be carried out.   She wants more women in through election- not party nomination.