On February 6, at 9:30pm, CAT, the privately owned Space X Company and Elon Musk, historically launched, from the Kennedy Space Centre, the Falcon Heavy on its maiden mission to launch a car into a proposed billion-year orbit around Planet Mars. Space X and humanity have taken a step closer to achieving Elon Musk’s long-term ambition — making the human species a multi-planetary species. But the launch of the most impactful rocket today coincided with some political events in Kenya, which overshadowed every other news. That night, there were other more serious events, such the awards that Kenya won, which were equally ignored. POWER-CRAZED MANIAC It is time African nations embraced technological and scientific skills that could trigger innovation and inventions, enabling the population to play an active role as globalised citizens. They can no longer afford to sit back as passive observers, wondering what is in it for them. Kenyans pay too much attention to politics, which has overshadowed other priorities. What would happen if a nuclear war erupted? A power-grazed maniac could pull the trigger to wipe out mankind if they woke up on the wrong side of the bed. Africa cannot afford to watch passively, crawling while others are flying. When shall Africa make a car? MASS DESTRUCTION Idi Amin, the Ugandan mass butcher who single-handedly almost decimated his nation as he caused suffering, brain drain and a refugee exodus, could have done worse if he had access to weapons of mass destruction. So, Africa is not a safe haven and should actively seek solutions to threats to the human race. The millennials are not going back to the hoe and machete technology. We can no longer tell our children that computers are too expensive for schools. At one time, our scientists complained at a conference that so much money given for research by Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation ended up with their peers from other countries for lack of political goodwill from our governments. Other nations back up their scientists and put their foot down until the last cent was repatriated. CORIOLIS EFFECT The Falcon Heavy was launched in Florida because it has a climate similar to that of the coastal region of Kenya. The Luigi Broglio Space Centre (BSC) created and used the San Marco launch platform between 1967 and 1988. Launching rockets from the Equator is much more efficient because of a physical phenomenon known as the Coriolis Effect. Again, the launch would not have been possible without a Space X team comprising mathematicians, physicists, software programmers, aerospace and material engineers, chemists and many other experts. There is a tide in the affairs of men which, if taken as a flood, leads to fortune. Upward mobility of the First World came as a sequence of scientific and technological advancement. However, up to now, no one in Kenya is even referring to the launch and the station has gathered dust. This is because no local university offers such subjects as astrophysics. Ms Koech, a communications specialist, is a part-time lecturer at Kenyatta University. ncdebor@gmail.com  