Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i maintained that he will not be cowed by threats in the ongoing crackdown on cartels in various sectors of the government. Instead, Dr Matiang’i said he will unflinchingly forge on with the fight to end the vice. Dr Matiang’i was speaking Friday during a fundraiser at Nyabisase Secondary in Bobasi, Kisii County. “This thing of trying to harass (me) is just wasting time and is not going to solve things. I am not in the business of making cartels happy by sacrificing my stance. I will always stand for the truth which I vowed to protect at whatever cost,” said the CS. SUMMONS Dr Matiang’i took exception with the constant summons he has been getting from parliamentary committees. He said some of the summons were aimed at intimidating him from executing his mandate. “Whatever level of blackmail [that comes my way] I am not ready to slow down; impunity must be fought at whatever cost and be won,” he said. The CS further ordered security agencies in the country to step up the fight against adulterated fuel. He said there are some people who are out to use Parliament, social media and certain journalists to make him appear evil. “They are hunting me left right and centre through social media and using journalists but I won’t back down,” the Interior minister said. IMPUNITY Dr Matiang’i said impunity will not be allowed to thrive at the expense of the people’s lives. “We will not want some people to enrich themselves by killings others. On this, we will stand to fight to protect our people,” he said. At the same time, he commended security agencies in the Kisii for bring down down crime. He said latest statistics show a significant reduction in crime in the region. But he said there are still incidents of bang trafficking and sale of illicit alcohol that need to be sorted out by the law enforcement agencies. He, at the same time, asked students across the country to work hard in order to pass their examinations. Dr Matiang’i said the stringent invigilation rules he had introduced are still in force and thus the need for students to work hard.  