July is almost over but a gut feeling tells me that this cold weather is not bidding us farewell anytime soon. If you remember correctly, we started freezing in June; much earlier than we had anticipated. Gone were the days when the weather was predictable; I guess we have global warming and climate change to thank for that. Sigh. With no telling what the weather holds for us tomorrow, it is only safe to stock your wardrobe with appropriate outfits for all seasons – and a hoodie should be top of your list. Here are six reasons why:  1.They are warm. I have bought hoodies on impulse for precisely this reason. Have you ever left the house in a cute chiffon top or a sunny dress on a warm day only for the weather to pull a chilly number on out of the blues? I do not know your experience, but this always happens the moment I get too far from the house to change. Since I do not subscribe to the ‘freeze-and-shine philosophy’, I have ended up buying hoodies like coffee to go. However, the sting of such unbudgeted expenses disappears the moment I snuggle into the warm hoodie. You can count on a hoodie to keep away the cold.     2. They are stylish and comfortable. They come in different colours, have different designs and some even incorporate more than one material. Some have double hoods and front pockets that accentuate that laid-back look with swag. If you love variety like I do, then hoodies are likely to leave you spoilt for choice. Heart palpitations induced by limited options to choose from is not a concern when it comes to shopping for hoodies. If you love thrift shopping, then you know that the next stall always has more hoodies with better designs, and, at times, better prices. The cherry on top is that most hoodies are unisex, which means you can “borrow” from your better half.  3.They can be customised. A personal favourite trend for me is customised hoodies. Did you know that you can purchase a plain hoodie and have a designer customise it for you with special messages and other materials such as bits of Ankara? Imagine having bits of your old colourful T-shirts or dresses cut up into fancy designs and stitched on to that solid hoodie you bought for two cents because it didn’t have much madoido (decoration or fancy designs). If you know how to sew, you can actually do this yourself. You and boo can have matching hoodies branded with a romantic label like “his queen/her king”, “his/her heartbeat” or you can have it read how awesome people born in your birth month are. The options are infinite.  4. They make great souvenirs. I saw you roll your eyes at this one. How many hoodies have people “borrowed” from you? I bet you now understand that “borrowing hoodies” is not really a thing because they simply never come back.  They seem to be default souvenirs. Trying to get them back will only cause you grief. I recommend you let go of that black hoodie with a golden label on the chest and double hoods at the back. Release it. This is my confession on behalf of happy souvenir collectors. We meant to return the hoodie but then what would we remember you by? Please, let it warm your heart to know that you are the chief source of our warmth in this chilly July. Your generosity is greatly appreciated. But if you insist, we will bring it back. Just like we said we would last year.     5. They can keep your hair dry in case it rains. Again, on weather being its usual unpredictable self, hoodies can actually save the day. Or at least your hair from rain. In the event of a drizzle catching up with you smack in the middle of nowhere, you can throw on your hoodie as you make your way out of the rain. The hood should sort you out just before the heavy downpour kicks in because then it will not be of much use to you. Unless you are rocking one of those fancy water resistant hoodies.  6. They nail the perfect casual look. Hoodies have a flattering effect on the casual look and an easy trademark. I was watching a video the other day of Mark Zuckerberg making his defence before congress and for a good two minutes I could not recognise him in a tie. It did not help that the bulk of his defence involved denying any knowledge of how Facebook works. Hoodies make such a dramatic distinction between the formal dress-up and a laid-back look. I find them to be the ultimate ice-breakers, mainly because I’m not such a huge fan of T-shirts. Hoodies and jeans scream: “It’s play time! Let us have some fun…” If you plan on stepping out this weekend for a lazy hangout or just to unwind, a hoodie will complete the picture.   They are tasty, healthy and also beneficial for the skin and hair.