The Nation Media Group (NMG) is engaged in a series of activities to promote its products in the Coast region. On Friday, NTV launched a week-long roadshow in Mombasa. NTV is cashing on the huge following it attracted for being the only local station that streamed the World Cup live. NMG staff also donated stationery to learners at the coastal city of Mombasa. The NMG team led by the Group Human Resource Director David Kiambi, Corporate Affairs boss Clifford Machoka and the Coast regional editor Lucas Barasa said the company is committed to improving education. Speaking during the function at Shika Adabu Primary School in Likoni, where they donated textbooks, exercise books and other educational materials, the team called on parents to provide necessary support for their children to enable them excel in education. “We will continue with such programmes because we believe it is a worthwhile investment on learners. We are interested in the future of our children and we will provide necessary support at all times,” said Mr Kiamba NMG has been keen on promoting education in schools throughout the country. “Parents should closely monitor their children and provide them with the support they need to achieve their dreams. They should bring up their children in a manner that will enable them cope with life in any environment,” said Mr Kiambi. Shika Adabu head teacher Fatma Bwajuma said the learning materials will help improve pupils’ performance. “The books will supplement the few books the school receives from the national government to assist leaners improve in national exams,” said Ms Bwajuma. Built in 1972, Ms Bwajuma said the school was the only public learning institution serving the local community and its student population has increased over the last five years. Likoni Sub-County education director Salim Barnard said the ministry of education has ensured all pupils from the area get an education. “A lot of efforts have been made to ensure all children are enrolled in schools. As of now, I can confidently say that all almost all children are enrolled in schools,” he said The local MCA, Mr Mwalimu Hamadi, also thanked the company for supplying the school with stationery. Mr Hamadi called on security agents and local leaders to address the drug menace and early marriages, rampant in the area. Addressing NMG staff at Mombasa Golf Club, chief executive Stephen Gitagama said the firm is committed to meeting its customers’ needs. He also reiterated NMG's efforts to be a digital-first company and providing regional content. The company has invested in a new state-of-the-art Sh150 million publishing system that has converged content production on its print, broadcast and digital platforms. The new system is part of the company’s digital-first strategy that seeks to transform the NMG into a 21st century digital content firm.   Gitagama commends Joho for cleaning the port city and rehabilitating pavements.