On July 4, the United States celebrates the visionary courage of its Founders, who rejected tyranny and declared the 13 colonies they represented to be free. We honour their Declaration of Independence and its affirmation that we are all created equal with Our Declaration began America’s long journey toward a more perfect union. We have made great progress, but we are not there yet. Americans continue to debate difficult issues and strive to build a better nation. We are still working to fulfill the promise of 1776. In doing so, we hold true to the ideals and values of the Declaration, and our Constitution. Those ideals and values are universal, and we share them with Kenyans, whose Constitution makes the same promise of democracy and guarantees fundamental freedoms. DIFFICULT ELECTION That Constitution was reaffirmed when, after a difficult election, Kenyan leaders shook hands, put their nation first and agreed to work together for a better future. We welcome their leadership and look forward to robust discussions and concrete progress. We hope all Kenyans, including women, will have a voice in the process. When women have a seat at the table, they bring new ideas and perspectives to overcoming any country’s challenges. Over my six years in Kenya, I have travelled far and wide in this extraordinary country and my travel always reminds me how much Americans have in common with Kenyans. I have heard the hopes and dreams of teachers in West Pokot, healthcare workers in Mombasa, conservationists in Baringo, journalists in Kisumu, farmers in Migori and young people in Kwale. GOOD GOVERNANCE Kenyans across this nation seek the rule of law, good governance, strong and effective democratic institutions and an end to tribal conflict. They are looking for meaningful jobs, a clean environment, strong communities and education for their children. And they want corruption to stop.Corruption is a cancer that is killing this country and the theft must end. Every Kenyan should stand up and reject corruption completely. Kenyans can stop corruption if they work together and commit themselves to the principles of their Constitution and the rule of law. Kenya’s future can only be secured with good governance and a commitment to transparency. As you strive to realise Kenya’s hopes and potential, Americans will continue to stand with you. We have a deep and vibrant partnership spanning more than 50 years. We have worked, hand in hand, to improve security, strengthen health care, educate children, assist farmers, protect wildlife and create prosperity for all. UNMATCHED BEAUTY The ties that bind us are a tapestry of unmatched beauty. That tapestry includes more than 100,000 Kenyans living in the US and 30,000 Americans here. It includes the hundreds of American companies that have created tens of thousands of good, well-paying jobs for Kenyans. And it includes the top US business executives and government officials who came to Nairobi a week ago to deepen our trade and investment relations. The delegation took part in an American Chamber of Commerce conference focused on the ‘Big Four’ and signed business deals worth more than Sh10 billion. The visit culminated in the signing of a memorandum of understanding between our governments that offers new ways for US companies to support the ‘Big Four’ and infrastructure initiatives. The visit was another important step forward for our economic ties. CANCER CLINICS The tapestry also includes our work on healthcare. Together, we do research to end malaria, build cancer clinics, improve care for mothers and newborns and more. With Sh65 billion in annual government support alone, the US is the largest international investor in Kenya’s health sector. As part of this, more than a million HIV-positive Kenyans receive life-saving antiretroviral therapy everyday, allowing them to live productive lives. Another thread is our partnership to improve education for the next generation. Our joint reading programme, Tusome, puts books in English and Kiswahili in the hands of every early primary school child in Kenya. In addition, our Generation programme with the private sector trains young Kenyans and helps them to get better jobs. In the next two years, we will assist 100,000 youth to find meaningful employment that allows them and their families to thrive. Together, we are improving the lives of Kenyans and Americans everyday. Mr Godec is the US Ambassador to Kenya.  