AFC Leopards will be without their captain Duncan Otieno and two other key players when they face their nemesis Gor Mahia in the eagerly anticipated SportPesa Premier League at the 60,000-seater Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani on Sunday. The meeting will be the 84th Mashemeji derby between this age-old football rival, and even though the buzz of yesteryears is decidedly muted it will still be a high stakes meeting with all important bragging rights sought at all costs. While Otieno is suspended for the match that kicks off at 3pm having accumulated five yellow cards, defender Robinson Kamura and winger Brian Marita are sidelined with ankle and hip injuries respectively. Ingwe coach Rodolfo Zapata has exuded confidence in the available players seeking to avenge the 1-0 defeat suffered at the hands of K’Ogalo during the Hull City Challenge tie at Afraha Stadium on May 1. “We’ve no excuses, I’ve a lot of young talented players going to show the reason why they were signed here,” said the Argentine after guiding the 13-time champions in a Friday training session at St. Paul’s University grounds, Limuru. He added: “All players have responded well to my coaching this week knowing how important the game is. I respect Gor Mahia, their coach Dylan (Kerr) as well and look forward to a tactical game hoping for a win.” In the absence of skipper Otieno, Zapata will hand former Gor Mahia forward Ezekiel Odera the captain’s armband. Odera and Whyvonne Isuza have scored a combined 18 goals in 22 matches, one better than Gor’s attacking duo Rwandese Jacques Tuyisenge (10) and Ivorian Ephrem Guikan who has seven goals. “It’s a game like any other though the difference is the rivalry between the two sides thus we need to show more enthusiasm and win the bragging rights,” outlined Odera, who is likely to partner midseason signing Nigerian striker Alex Orotomal in attack. The two looked sharp in Friday’s training as Eugene Mukangula and Jafari Owiti operated from the flanks. Gor, who have three games in hand, top the table standings with 49 points, 13 ahead of fifth-placed Leopards. The reigning champions however need to recover within 48 hours after their midweek 4-0 triumph over Young Africans of Tanzania in their Caf Confederation Cup Group D encounter. Zapata, who has lost once in 11 matches since taking charge in April, has downplayed fatigue in Gor team that were also busy in the recently held Cecafa Kagame Cup in Dar es Salaam where they finished third. “Derbies are unpredictable all-over the world it doesn’t matter which position you’re in the league or how fit the team is,” he said. Tickets for the game have been priced at Sh500 VIP and Sh200 terraces. The derby was initially scheduled for May 26 at Bukhungu Stadium but was postponed to pave way for Harambee Stars’ friendly matches against Equatorial Guinea and Swaziland.  