Some 27 suspects linked to the loss of Sh469 million loss at the National Youth Service have so far been released from remand after meeting all the requirements set by the High Court. Most of the suspects who have secured their freedom are senior civil servants and business people linked to the scam. NGIRITAS Five family members of the Ngiritas are yet to secure their release because of the stringent verification and a directive from the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Noordin Haji. Mr Haji had last month asked the DCI to ensure that bail and sureties presented by the accused are not proceeds of crime. In a statement, Mr Haji directed the DCI to confirm the validity and legitimacy of the securities, saying concerns have been raised by the Assets Recovery Agency (ARA) that some of the funds intended to be used as sureties, are not only suspect but are also subjects of the current cases. The Ngiritas include their mother Lucy Wambui, daughters Ann Wanjiku Wambere Ngirita and Phyllis Ngirita, Mr Jeremiah Gichini Ngirita and his wife Catherine Wanjiku Mwai. Those who had been released by Tuesday include Mr Lucas Otieno and Mr Josephat Njoroge— both former internal auditors at Treasury, Mr Christopher Malala, a former senior accountant at NYS, Ms Clara Mbao and Ms Andrine Grace Nyambura. Those who had secured their freedom by last week were former PS Lillian Omolo, former NYS Director-General Richard Ndubai, businessman Peter Kimani, Mr Michael Ojiambo, a former director of Administration at Ministry of Youth Affairs, and Mr Rodgers Nzioka, a former head of procurement at Mechanical Transport Branch (MTB) at the agency. 48 CHARGED Others are Mr Wellington Lubira, a former acting director of finance at NYS, Mr Sammy Mbugua, a former heads of accounts at the Ministry of Youth and Gender Affairs, Mr Kenneth Mburu Mwathi and Mr Peter Muritu. At the same time, one more suspect linked to the scam was charged before a Nairobi court on Tuesday, bringing to 48 the number of those charged so far. Mr Humphrey Mbogo, a former accountant at NYS denied multiple charges— including neglect official duty, abuse of office and conspiracy to commit an economic offence. Mr Mbogo was hospitalised when other suspects were charged in court in May. His lawyer Kamau Mbiyu told the court that the suspect had been discharged from a hospital in Thika. Chief Magistrate Douglas Ogoti directed that he deposit bails and bonds just like other suspects to secure his release. Each suspect is required to execute a bond of Sh5 million, produce sureties of Sh2 million and deposit cash bail of Sh1 million in court. They should also deposit their passports in court. The pre-trial conference will be held on July 17 after two failed attempts.   Court told that their accounts and assets have been frozen.