As we yearn for more from the new signings to be handed debuts, coach Rodolfo Zapata is of the opinion that most of them are yet to obtain the required levels of match fitness. Like other fans of this great club, I was impressed, not just with the new signings, but with the entire team against Sony Sugar and Bandari in recent matches, before playing Gor Mahia on Sunday. Congrats lads, you are doing a commendable job! Indeed Leopards produced a worthy performance throughout, especially against Sony, although the coach has asked us to be a little more patient before we see all the new players in action. Although Alex Orotomal may not have the right attributes for AFC Leopards right now, he is still a good signing with Ingwe in desperate need of a goal getter. Welcome our super striker from Nigeria. Oga, welcome ooh! Okeke my broda! Welcome to Ingwe! The lanky and powerful striker, who scored a penalty on July 14 that was disallowed by centre referee George Mwai, has a chance to thrive in our local league after signing a two-year contract. He is only 24 and his best years are ahead of him. The Nigerian citizen was a consistent goal scorer and performer at Sunrise FC of Rwanda before he was finally spotted by friends of Ingwe patron, Johnstone Sakaja. With anew arrivals including Eugene Mukangula, Saad Musa and Edward Seda, Ingwe is only going to improve. I think Orotomal can give us the cutting edge that we’ve missed in the past few seasons. He’s a very good signing. We are now on the overtaking lane. In the 2017-2018 Azam Rwanda Premier League season, Orotomal finished third on the scoring charts, with 10 goals, three behind the Golden Boot winner, Jean-Claude Ndarusanze of AS Kigali. Orotomal can be the striker that AFC Leopards has lacked for many years. As long as he stays healthy and given a place in the starting line-up, his power, strength, and clinical finishing capabilities will come in handy. He came in a substitute against Gor Mahia in the Mashemeji derby and even though he did not score, he will in the second leg. According to Sakaja, Ingwe has been following the player for some time and discovered he was a top player to add punch to the Ingwe front line. It’s our great pleasure to receive a world class striker at the Den; since we have had challenges in our striking force and the Nigerian could be the solution to our finishing problems that can see Ingwe once again become a consistent performer. Going by his history, Orotomal's arrival will be a good addition to the team; the same day Ingwe confirmed acquiring the services of Kenyan holding midfielder Said “N’Golo Kante” Tsuma from Thika United. The 21-year-old former Kisumu Day student, who penned three-year contract, followed the arrival of Mukangula. Orotomal, who is a physical beast, is an excellent finisher. He can create his own goals and he will add a lot to the Ingwe squad.  