There is an English thriller titled Blood and Oil (2010). It is written by Guy Hibbert and directed by David Attwood, both very accomplished players in the film industry. It also features two very celebrated female actors, Naomie Harris and Jodhi May. The movie opens with a scene featuring Harris, playing as top ranking public relations executive named Alice, leading a ceremony to celebrate her father’s 65th birthday at their London home. She extols the father’s virtues and amplifies his troubling journey from his days as a barefooted 11-year-old orphan in Nigeria to the multi-billionaire philanthropist in a leafy suburb in the world’s most advanced city. The father is presented as the real poster boy for grass-to-grace philanthropy and the daughter cannot imagine a human being more well-meaning, empathetic and accommodative. CORRUPT ELEMENTS After the party, Alice is sent on a tour of duty to her parent’s home country, Nigeria, where the company she works for has a communication crisis that requires her skills and competencies. Some expatriate workers have been abducted in the country’s oil rich region of Port Harcourt and negotiations for ransom are ongoing. Alice, like all of us in communications in similar situations, is expected to manage media relations and messaging for this particular crisis. But while she is on duty, Alice learns that her father has all along been working with some corrupt elements in the Nigerian government to orchestrate the kidnappings and sometimes murders to extort oil firms to pay ransoms, proceeds of which have made him so rich. Alice’s own luxurious upbringing, she discovers, and even her job at the oil company, are results of blood from the oil. SHARING PROCEEDS Though this is not the main theme of the movie, its one story line that has very striking parallels with what we are being treated to in the ongoing drama in Turkana, Kenya. Last Wednesday, Tullow Oil, the company spearheading exploration of oil in the country, suspended its operations following incessant protests by residents. In the short time the company has been carrying out its activities in the area, incidents of protests have been many. The protesters have been advancing various grievances for their actions which, fortunately, have continued to receive appropriate attention over the time. The company and the government have, reportedly, been listening and attending to the various issues raised by the local residents as genuine stakeholders in the enterprise. From campaigns to hire local staff to seeking a formula for sharing the proceeds of the exploration, residents appear to have managed to get their way. MUTED PROTESTS A scheduled presidential function related to the exploration had to be moved forward several times as negotiations to agree on the revenue sharing formula continued amidst protests. The agreement was eventually reached and everyone seemed happy. And President Uhuru Kenyatta finally visited the county and officially launched what was dubbed the Early Oil Pilot Scheme (EOPS) that was to see 600 barrels transported to Mombasa every day. This is one of the projects that have now been muted following the protests. The company has also spent millions of shillings in the education of sons and daughters of the locals in universities abroad as it prepares the next generation of managers in the industry. In an effort that is seen by many as pacifying the region, President Kenyatta even hired one of the locals, John Munyes, as Cabinet Secretary for Petroleum. What more can a people ask for? It seems, however, the grievances are never-ending. DISRUPT ACTIVITIES Just days after the President launched EOPS, following consultations with the locals, some leaders were reported to have organised some more protests! Two MPs, to quote a local daily, “put their expectations bluntly: no oil will leave the county until residents have a stake in jobs and their security is assured” James Lomenen (Turkana South) and Mohamed Ali (Turkana East) uttered the war cry and led masses to disrupt the activities of the company and the government. Though they later called a ceasefire, it is clear they did not mean it. Now there are some issues that are not in dispute in this particular dispute. One of them is the fact that the Turkana community can only gain from the exploration activities, the people have nothing to lose. The second is that there are people who enjoy the current status quo and will do anything to keep it that way. ORCHESTRATING SABOTAGE Like Alice’s father in Blood and Oil, there are vultures among the Turkana leadership who are benefiting from the poverty of the majority of the locals, want to mortgage the community for top dollar and will continue orchestrating sabotage against any move to utilise the natural resource and develop the area. The protesters, like Alice, are being used to further the interests of others. Only that for them, there’s no benefit. Michael Mugwang'a is a communications consultant based in Nairobi. Email: michael.mugwanga@gmail.com @mykeysoul  