My journey to civilisation has been a long and painful ordeal. One of the areas where I have stubbornly refused to evolve is restaurant manners and eating with knives and forks. I am yet to understand how you can peel off the juicy roasted meat from goat ribs using a fork and knife. I still insist that you must establish a physical connection with the meat, and this must include physical handling; what we call hands-on experience in meat eating. I don’t also understand how you can finish a whole plate of rice using two sticks. Rice should always come with a lot of soup and should be scooped with a table spoon to the last grain. Cutting ugali using a knife and then using a fork to lift small pieces to your mouth is an activity that I consider disrespectful to the meal. Best practice requires that you pinch a generous piece with your fingers, mould it for a few minutes, preferably as you chat away with the other table mates, then, once you have established trust and rapport with the piece of ugali, you should excavate a hole in the middle and use the depression to scoop vegetables and soup, then eat it. My first experience with knives and forks in a restaurant nearly ended up in disaster. My employer was happy with something we had done, we were also not sure what it was, but he decided to treat us to dinner at a famous Indian restaurant. The menu that greeted us looked like a KCSE exam revision manual for home science. It was a generous 80-pages folder full of meals whose main recipes comprised of boiled pepper, roasted pepper, steamed, raw and deep fried pepper marinated in onions and garlic. It was a tense and defining moment as I perused through the menu looking for a familiar meal such as rice and beans. Everyone else seemed to have settled on a meal within the first three minutes. There was no way I was going to come up to a reasonable conclusion unless I was allowed to take the menu home and study it for a week. The only other option was for me to be flown to India for a two-week intensive course on eating pepper. HOT PEPPER I closed my eyes and opened a random page where I selected a further random meal in the middle of the page. I reasoned that the waiter would be impressed that I had read halfway through the booklet and conclude that I must have made a well-informed choice. The waiter took my order but he looked at me sympathetically before he disappeared for two hours. At some point I felt guilty that I had burdened the chef with something he didn’t have ready ingredients for. Perhaps he had been forced to send someone to a popular vegetables market in Parklands to look for some rare onions and pepper that featured in my meal. Either that, or my meal was being burnt in a furnace to make the garlic paste more potent. All my colleagues had received their orders and were already eating heartily, but I also noticed that they were taking copious amounts of water in between the mouthfuls of food. Finally, the waiter returned while balancing eight small bowls full of chemical warfare and biological weapons on a tray. Each of the bowls contained tiny servings of dark red paste that claimed to be mildly hot. In a separate basket there were several chapatis that seemed to have been made in a country that was experiencing a severe shortage of cooking fat. The chapatis also didn’t take after any particular shape, and they seemed to have been cooked by someone in a hurry. Before I could summon the chief chef and bring the restaurant to a standstill with complaints, a colleague took me aside and explained to me that those were the main delicacies that this particular restaurant was famed for and I was not going to change that narrative. I grudgingly settled down but I swore to claim a refund for the missing cooking fat. I ate with a lot of tears flowing freely from my eyes. Each mouthful felt like red-hot embers straight from the fireplace, but all along I pretended they were tears of appreciation of Indian cuisine and their culinary expertise. On my way home, I bought some cold water because it felt like someone had lit a fire under my tongue. My eyes were teary and you would have been excused to think that the waiter had refused to bring my order and I was starving. The following morning when I went to relive myself I suffered the same burning effect and my eyes were teary again. I decided from then on to stick to the more familiar roast meat joints. *** Do you have feedback on this story? E-mail: lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com   After waiting a whole day for the unlucky crow, none showed up.