Kenya Airways #ticker:KQ and US-based plane manufacturer Boeing have signed an agreement that will see the local airline access the latter’s global network of parts and on-demand services. Kenya Airways, popularly known by its code name KQ, becomes the first airline in Africa to have access to Boeing’s Consumable and Expandable Services, meant to improve its fleet's reliability and turnaround time. Boeing will deliver materials and services that will keep KQ’s fleet’s maintenance operations running at optimum efficiency. This latest agreement comes barely three months to the official launch of the Nairobi to John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) in New York. READ: Revival of Nigeria, Uganda airlines ups pressure on KQ READ: Air France raises Paris-Nairobi flights to five per week READ: Kenya Airways to ditch Jeddah route in September The trans-Atlantic flight is scheduled to depart JKIA at 10.30pm every day, a journey that will last 15 hours. This is a reduction from the current flight time of over 22 hours, including lengthy layovers. “This program will provide unparalleled support for our fleet of 737s and 787-8s and we expect to continue to grow our operations with increased reliability and quicker turnaround times,” said Jan de Vegt, Chief Operating Officer of Kenya Airways. 'Economical and comprehensive' “Boeing’s Consumable and Expendable Services program provides the most economical and comprehensive solution for Kenya Airways,” said Ihssane Mounir, Senior Vice President of Commercial Sales & Marketing for the Boeing Company. “With this program, Kenya Airways can rely on Boeing’s resources and global presence and focus on their core business of serving their passengers.” The initial agreement covers more than 18,700 parts during a five-year implementation period. KQ’s fleet requires up to 35,700 parts, which will be all included in the agreement in phases. It will provide parts and services to Kenya Airways’ Boeing fleet of 14 737s and eight 787 Dreamliners, which will be serving a new non-stop route from Nairobi to New York beginning in October 2018.  