President Uhuru Kenyatta and his newfound ally Raila Odinga were at the Coast this week with reports indicating that the duo met to discuss matters of “national importance.” Mr Odinga arrived in Mombasa on Thursday where he joined President Kenyatta, who was already in the Coast for a five-day stay. The top leaders’ visit to the region which ended Saturday was shrouded in secrecy, with their handlers terming it “not official”. Top police officers were also on high alert and keen to ensure everything was smooth during the President's stay. President Kenyatta completed his five-day stay and headed to Nakuru where he paid a courtesy call to retired President Daniel Moi at his Kabarak home. A top government official confirmed President Kenyatta’s visit to the region, saying “he has been here for the last four days but he wants the visit to remain a secret.” After the meeting, Mr Odinga took a flight to Kisumu. MONITORING PORT During their visit at the Coast, President Kenyatta was closely monitoring Mombasa port operations. The Head of State has been keenly following up on port operations after Kenya Ports Authority board appointed Dr Daniel Manduku as managing director. Mr Manduku was appointed in an acting capacity following the exit of Ms Catherine Mturi-Wairi. On their agenda was meeting with the peace pact committee which is headed by lawyers Martin Kimani and Paul Mwangi. HOUSEWARMING PARTY On Thursday, Mr Odinga held a housewarming party for his new home in Nyali that has been painted in white and blue, in compliance with Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho’s orders. Mr Joho ordered all buildings in Mombasa’s Central Business District painted white and blue. Pictures that went round on social media showed Mr Odinga joined by Mombasa Deputy Governor William Kingi during the housewarming party. On Friday, Mr Odinga met Mr Joho in Nyali where the two touched on Mr Ruto’s forays in the region. Last week, Mr Joho dismissed Mr Ruto’s frequent Coast and vowed to work with Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and other like-minded leaders to block him from the presidency. Mr Ruto has visited the Coast at least 10 times and is believed to be making inroads into the region, largely perceived as an ODM stronghold. Despite the criticism on his frequent visits, Mr Ruto has remained defiant, vowing to continue visiting the region.   President Kenyatta holds a brief meeting with former President Moi and his son, Gideon.