Communication theorists have been grumbling that people are no longer talking unless they absolutely must, and that the spoken word remains useful only to teachers, broadcasters, preachers and politicians — and that only because they can’t do without it. This conclusion is, of course, a little exaggerated; people do talk the way they have always done, but they no longer dwell on it. Now, it is beginning to look like the millennials have found ways of communicating without uttering a single word even while in close proximity. Earlier this week, I visited a joint for a drink and was amused at what I saw. Three youths, a fellow and two lasses, were seated at a table nursing concoctions which looked suspiciously like soft drinks. SMARTPHONES Each one had a smartphone with which they were conversing assiduously. And, although we stayed there for half an hour, I never saw any of them talk to the others. Indeed, they never opened their mouths at all except when sipping their drinks or talking on the phone. I concluded that unless they were texting one another, there was no audible means of communication. WI-FI The whole thing was, to say the least, mystifying. That is until, out of curiosity, I asked what was happening and was told the youths actually knew each other, had come together, and for the price of a soda each, were merely taking advantage of the free Wi-Fi available in the pub to chat on their phones. This scene can be replicated many times over especially in urban areas as it appears that the smartphone is slowly taking over people’s lives. Not just the smartphone but all devices that are compatible with internet connection. Now, I am getting into areas with which I can’t claim great familiarity having been inducted into the mysterious digital world rather late in life, but it is clear to even acute technophobes that the internet has changed the lives of a significant number of Kenyans — to the extent that they often wonder how they ever survived without it. ENGROSSED IN PHONES Enter any public service vehicle these days and you will notice half of your fellow commuters are engrossed in their phones and there is no chit-chat among them because all their chatting is happening on their devices. In the past, many a romance was born in PSVs where guys and dolls ended up exchanging postal ad-dresses or office telephone contacts. But these days, I understand, a lot of seduction is happening on the phone or other gadgets during which complete strangers exchange every bit of personal in-formation long before they actually meet. Since it is a little too late for me to visit online dating sites to prove it, I will let the matter rest here. DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY The most important thing is that digital technology has taken over our lives to a significant extent, and even if there are distinct advantages associated with this development, there are also many disadvantages, chief among them being that the art of conversation is slowly dying. Those who claim digital technology is killing communication are wrong. If we define communication as the process of exchanging information, then people are doing so all right, a lot faster, to a lot more people, albeit without any emotional connection. What has been affected by the use of social media is that people no longer relate to one another. They rarely ever talk, and obviously, something is always lost in such circumstances. In every setting, be it a social or formal event, always a significant number of participants will be on Facebook checking the most recent postings, or scrolling through WhatsApp to find out what their group members are re-posting, or on Twitter for breaking news, the latest insult or brag. SOCIAL MEDIA The problem with the rise in popularity of social media is that it leads to instant gratification, but it also leads to other vices. There are many forms of communication and body language is one. On social media, we do not ask the questions that are relevant, and ironically, it has become difficult to be spontaneous in our responses. We can no longer share the thoughts which are closest to our beliefs without editing them first. In short, it has become difficult for us to say what we actually think, which has proved inimical to relationships. What is clear is that we can never go back. The Internet is the best thing that happened to humankind since the invention of the wheel. All we need to do is to modify our behaviour so that it serves us instead of becoming our master. *** A few weeks ago, Education PS Belio Kipsang assured Kenyans that his ministry would consult and decide whether learners in primary and secondary schools should from next year be forced to wear one uniform — all 12 million of them. To this, I join other parents in saying stuff and nonsense! Our school system is afflicted with too many problems that should be fixed urgently instead of such thoughtless distractions.  Magesha Ngwiri is consultant editor. andrewngwiri@gmail.com  