How many times have you been told or said to another person ‘I love you?’ What exactly did you mean? Did you mean I love you because you are tall, chocolate brown with a killer smile? Or I love you because of your small waist, sizable hips, pretty pair of legs and eyes that talk better than the mouth? Or, you meant in you I see a person I can spend the rest of my life with because you complement the values I want in a life partner? Love means different things to different people. For some, it starts and ends with physical attributes. For others, it is the ability to meet needs, mostly financial. You have that ability; I love you and if not, hit the road. For others, it is the individual value system they are on the lookout for. They want patient person, someone to reason together with, one who easily forgives, someone who works as hard as they do towards a common vision and someone who builds their ambitions, supports their faith and is generally respectable to everyone. The rest, they can build together as they advance their relationship. The young Kenyan woman has of late earned a new definition-the ‘slay queen’. A quick google search does not offer definitions other than from the Kenyan context. Slay queens are described as ‘ladies who maintain that they can only ride in specific cool cars, can only live in certain suburbs and as well have their specific menu,” one difinition offered. Basically, they are portrayed as women who want it all but have nothing for themselves. Quickly, the notion that women who want better for themselves are gold diggers has been entrenched in the young men belief system, such that they are no longer sure about the women they are dating. Several questions beg for answers. Are young women simply out to benefit from everything else other than true love from the men they are dating? On the flip side, have men become so slack and complacent that they no longer know their roles in relationships? Are they free loaders expecting the women they are dating to do everything for them; and when women demand for better they are quickly labelled as slay queens? Are they so scared of the ‘slay queen’ effect that they hold back even from what could be beautiful relationships? We sought, from four young people their take on this matter, and what they feel about the confusion that exists around love matters, and also a sociologist who helped unpack relationship expectations for young people. NANCY MAKENA, 22, Make-up artist For Nancy, love is about financial provision and investment.     Nancy Makena is 22 years old and according to her, love is about provision and investments. Is the partner willing to provide for her needs and invest in her dreams and ambitions? “Some years back, when I was naïve, my definition for love was “for better, for worse”. However, at this time and era, I feel that most women don’t know want they want and are accepting to be with men who can barely provide for them. I have been there. In the past, I have been involved with a broke man in the name of growing together but it wasn’t pleasant at all. At this moment, financial independence tops the list of what I want from a partner,” she says. According to Nancy, her partner has to be able to meet her needs and occasionally, luxuries. She wants a different lifestyle from the girl next door, tour the world and have unique experiences. She understands that all this require money and believes that a man who commits to meeting these, loves her. “There are people who advise that love is all about loyalty but through some of my friends’ experiences, I have discovered that the only way to know of a man’s loyalty is when he has money. I have seen some of them start from scratch together only for their partners to abandon or cheat on them after they have started making more money. Interestingly, they go for women who challenge them to put more efforts in terms of provision,” Besides this, Nancy views love in terms of respect. She believes that it is important for partners to treat each other with high esteem. “I wouldn’t have any business with someone who does not give me a good treatment or keep reminding me of what they have done for me. For that reason, I am very particular with the people that I let into my life,” she offers. Of all the questions that interested partners ask women, she abhors, “what are you bringing to the table?” “I think that is a phrase used by destitute men. As a woman, I am enough. I have the capability of turning a house into a home and that should count,” she explains. The society does not consider such expectations as quintessential and over time, she has been called names for it-for being honest about her yearnings. “Some quarters label women like us as gold diggers or ‘slay queens’ but we are not. In my case, I know what I want and I am not ready to make compromises. However, the society turns a blind eye to men who provide for us and concentrates on disdaining us. I don’t understand why a man will need a well-educated woman, fashionable and of good character and not want to invest in her,” she wonders.  MARY WANJIKU Entrepreneur Mary says that she believes in genuine love and experiences the same with her partner.   “Love for me is all about compromises, sacrifices and being there for the other person beyond their flaws. I believe in genuine love because that is how I feel about my partner,” she starts. However, Mary is quick to note that such kind of love doesn’t come easy and although she is experiencing it, it is entangled with fears and uncertainties. “I am engaged to my fiancé of three years but I cannot go around showing my engagement ring because some of my relatives don’t approve of our love. They feel that I have gone inverse of what was expected of me,” she explains. Her fiancé is 18 years older than her and is a father of two. At the onset, the relationship was founded on secrets and it has taken her many months to find a happy medium. “When we started dating, he didn’t disclose that he had kids or even a ‘baby mama’ back at the United States of America where he had lived for 20 years. All that he said was that he had come back in the country for a fresh start,” she explains. After knowing the truth one year into their relationship, she called it off because it didn’t align with what she wanted in a partner. “My ideal partner is someone who is honest with me no matter the situation. I felt betrayed but I also figured that there were some things that I had kept to myself. To get an honest partner, I had to come out clean,” she offers. Mary opened up to her fiancé then-boyfriend about her dark past and the way he handled it made her believe that she had met her life partner. “I was molested by my cousin at a young age and I hadn’t revealed to anybody about it. I didn’t know who I could trust with such information. When I told him what had happened, he didn’t judge or pull away. If anything, he encouraged me to open up and talk about it with my parents,” she explains, and adds, that sometimes, she sees a father figure in him because even as he battles with stomach cancer, he showers her with the kind of love that she wished to get from her own father who when she was growing up, was emotionally absent. Some of her relatives argue that her choice of an older partner is based on the fact that her assaulter was more than 10 years older. “They feel that I am still haunted by that past but that is not the case. I believe that there is someone for everyone and my fiancé is that person for me. He is an amazing person and he doesn’t give up on what he values. The way he takes care of his children even miles away is really admirable. He doesn’t judge me and he makes a great listening partner,” she says. Although there is still much to contend with, Mary holds on to the hope that they will soon settle down as one happy family and that she will be looked at as someone who didn’t give up on her true love.  DOUGLAS GIKONYO Realtor He hopes to find a woman who will love him unconditionally.   “I grew up knowing that love was about loyalty - sticking around in laughter and sorrow. However, my experiences in love have unveiled another perspective that I didn’t know existed - self-gain. Because of this, I don’t believe that genuine love exists anymore. Most ladies want a man they can benefit from financially and are ready to move to the next one when a financial crisis hit. While at the University, I was in a relationship with a lady who kept reminding me of how much she loved me. I had a side hustle - running a clothing boutique. I could say that I was doing better than most young men in school. I used to take her out and every so often, buy her gifts. We were both students and I thought that we were really doing well. However, after dating for about two years, another suitor, working class, with deeper pockets wooed her and she left. Her loyalty failed,” he says. Douglas notes that some of his friends and acquaintances share in his predicament and could be the reason why some men don’t like to be committed to a relationship. “At the moment, I am off the dating scene but when I get back to it, I will be looking for a woman whose commitment to our relationship is not bent on money. She should be willing to be with me unconditionally. I know it might take some time to find her, but I am patient enough,” he concludes.  DENNIS ODENY Transformation coach, author, mentor He believes that love is about giving and the motive of doing so.   Dennis Odeny is a transformation coach, author, mentor and the brains behind "The Heart to Heart Connections", a program hinged on the premise that any form of frustration or pain is a lack of connection to our inner selves. For the past six years, he has been dealing with youth supporting them to determine what they really care about and helping them to transform and design their lives for best results. He is passionate about the subject of love and this is what he had to say. Love as most people define it is an intense feeling of affection mostly towards another person. This kind of love is largely dependent on how the other person occurs to you-it could be about the looks, behaviour or character. A different approach to love, from our training and programs is the acceptance of the way we occur to ourselves first. Unlike the first approach of love which calls for another person to complete us, this kind of love is being confident and complete as we are. From this premise, you are able to share what emanates from you with other people and your partner. Most youth desire to be in a relationship. Unbeknownst to some, how you love yourself play a major role on the type of partner you attract. If you are not whole as an individual, there is no one out there who can fill the void. When you are complete, you are able to see the other person as complete in their own way. You, therefore, don’t get into a relationship with them with the motive of changing their personalities. We all have different views of love and expectations from our partners but let's not confuse love with other feelings such as lust or obsession. Love is not about what you get but what you give and the motive behind it.  DANIEL KARIUKI Actuarial Science Student Daniel learnt the place of forgiveness in love through a past relationship.   Daniel was born and bred in a family that upheld Christian beliefs and as such, he was taught many aspects of love- love being kind, persevering, forgiving and pure. “Of them all, I emphasised on purity and that dictated my choice of partner. I couldn’t date a girl who wasn’t a virgin!” he offers. Then, he also didn’t believe that the love he had grown being taught about existed and he was all about having fun. “There are many stories told of love gone sour than there are of happiness. This could have contributed to my reasoning,” he explains. However, he met a girl who made him believe that love wasn’t all about being chaste. “When I met my ex-girlfriend, she changed my perspectives about love and made me realise that it’s all about forgiveness. For instance, I once told her that I had feelings for someone else but instead of being mad at me, she endeavoured to reason out with me, forgave me and we gave each other a second chance.After that occurrence, I figured out that love is all about forgiveness and second chances. I stopped dwelling much on whether a lady was a virgin or not and sought to know more about her heart,” he says. "Although we parted ways amicably, currently, I am in a fulfilling relationship of six months and it is blissful. It is a relationship that is based on forgiveness and giving second chances. I believe in genuine love because I have experienced it. When looking for a partner, above everything else, I looked out for someone who is respectful, forgiving and of noble character. I don’t know where beauty lies in the list but it counts too."      Six university students talk about their side hustles, volunteering, and the doors it has opened for them