Like many other Kenyans, I join the chorus of wishing that sanity returns to the country as regards corruption. There is only so far human resilience can be pushed. I am sure many Kenyans are saying “enough is enough” and want the government to go toe to toe with the vice until we see the back of it. The cheerleaders of those recently arrested on corruption charges ought to understand that taking a tribal line on crime is missing the point. This is not about pitting one tribe against the other; it is more about looking beyond affiliations to tackle a problem that has beleaguered this country for far too long and we must now pull the STOP lever. HANDCUFFS Once they get a report of a crime having been committed by a Cabinet secretary, CEO, or whoever else, the police should react the same way they ought to when an ordinary person is accused of the same. Police have manhandled and handcuffed ordinary people as far as we can remember — including this writer, whom they have on several occasions mistaken for a refugee or alien. Handcuffs cannot be a bone of contention now because the police finally have the support and the confidence to do their work at any level of our society without intimidation from hidden forces. DUTIFULLY What MPs and governors, in particular, are doing is abuse their powers and privileges by calling for favourable treatment of suspects of economic crime as long as they have a title preceding their name. A crime is a crime is a crime. Period. One’s position in society should not elicit favourable treatment. Whoever feels the police have overstepped their mark can, of course, invoke the law and challenge their action in court. Police work is a 24-hour service and, hence, they can rightfully and dutifully arrest suspects when the time is convenient, guided by law and proper intelligence. It is ludicrous to demand a five-star approach to arresting leaders suspected of any crime just because they come with an entourage, flag and motorcade. BLURRED Interfering with the work of the police by leaders only when one of their own is the subject matter undermines the confidence and the work of the officers and should not be tolerated. Elected leaders should be the first to understand fully the principle of separation of powers. Lines cannot be blurred only when they demand to obtain freedom for themselves and their cronies accused of crime. That is blatant abuse of power. They should also be aware, by now, that to come out and vitiate a corruption case just because it is their tribesman facing the gallows also feeds into breach of principle of sub judice (contempt of court, as commonly referred to). CONSEQUENCES Elected leaders should not take corruption as lightly as they do. This is a matter with serious implications on all of us. They must stop perceiving corruption through the tribal lens. It is no longer the cattle-rustling incidents between two or three tribes but a matter that has far-reaching consequences across tribal lines, the country and beyond. It is deeper, damaging and more sophisticated. As a matter of fact, leaders should be at the forefront of legislating for stiffer penalties on those who engage in corruption and not worry about who should be arrested on a Friday or not. That is the least of the problems for the rest of us affected by graft on a day to day basis. DISCOURTEOUS If the leaders are keen on restoring sanity in the country, they should start by quelling the fires ravaging our schools. That is a real emergency that should not have stretched this long. If leaders are serious about justice, then let us hear it for shortage of medicine, more funding for schools, enough water in the taps, better terms for civil servants and more jobs for the youth. That should be their priority list; let the corrupt leaders bear their own cross. Tribalism should, in fact, have been dead and buried long before corruption itself. It is discourteous to the electorate and taxpayers for leaders to come out and justify corruption by standing shoulder to shoulder with their peers accused of committing a economic crime that is detrimental to Kenyans. INDISCRIMINATELY Separation of powers means relevant institutions tasked with the responsibility of rooting out corruption can work freely. Tribal herd mentality veers into the realms of undermining the rule of law. Let the law indiscriminately go the full yard and bring perpetrators of graft to book. The corruption purge can only succeed when those in the criminal justice system — especially the police, the DPP and the courts — have the confidence to do their work without interference, intimidation or threats from those with vested interests. Ms Guyo is a legal researcher in Kenya and the United Kingdom. kaltum@hotmail.com  