Former Nyandarua governor Daniel Waithaka and two other officers who served in his office have denied charges of flouting procurement laws leading to the loss of Sh50 million. Mr Waithaka, former Water executive Grace Gitonga and the sitting Water chief officer Mr Kihiu Gaiko were yesterday charged before Chief Magistrate Josephat Kalo in Nakuru where they were referred to after appearing before a Nyahururu court earlier in the morning. Nyahururu Resident Magistrate James Wanyanga said the court lacked jurisdiction to handle the case. PROCUREMENT LAWS Mr Waithaka and Ms Gitonga were charged with six counts of economic crimes including failure to comply with laws relating to procurement, contrary to Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission Act. Particulars of the charge sheet are that the two, while serving as governor and water executive, flouted procurement laws by commissioning a project without proper planning on April 30, 2014. They are also accused of awarding a tender to Tahal Consulting Engineers Ltd for the development of the county water master plan and the design review of the Ol Kalou sewerage system design report, services which had not been planned for in the 2013/2014 financial year. Mr Gaiko was charged with mismanagement of public funds and abuse of office. SH10 MILION BOND He is accused of breaching public finance management laws by making payment of more than Sh26 million to Tahal without an approved payment voucher. He is also alleged to have used his position to improperly confer a benefit of more than Sh23 million to Tahal. Through their lawyers, the accused pleaded with the court for release on reasonable bond terms. Mr Assa Nyakundi, the lawyer representing the former governor and his minister, told the court that his clients were not a flight risk. The suspects were released on a Sh10 million bond each with surety of a similar amount. The court also granted the application by the prosecution seeking to have warrants of arrest issued against four other suspects: John Ngigi, Jesse Wachira, Chen Yochanan and Albert Atias.   Former Nyandarua county boss in the soup over Sh50m tender.