Three weeks ago in the 800-year-old Westminster Parliament, our International Development secretary delivered a statement in sign language for the first time in that institution while announcing the inaugural Global Disability Summit set to take place in London today. Co-hosted by the United Kingdom and Kenyan governments and the International Disability Alliance, the summit will see government representatives, civil society and people with disabilities from around the world agree a set of commitments to promote disability inclusion and equality. In the days following her statement, Ms Penny Mordaunt spoke of the overwhelming response she received. Individuals, schools and organisations reached out, explaining that, through her actions, they felt she had recognised the status of sign language, their needs, their culture and their concerns. This signal of recognition was powerful because, around the world, people with disabilities still feel marginalised. Kenya has made great progress, and shown great leadership, in recognising the rights of people with disabilities, enacting ambitious domestic legislation and signing up to international commitments. MARGINALISED But many people with disabilities in Kenya, as in my country, still feel marginalised, stigmatised and often misunderstood. No country has got it right yet. I hope the summit will help us to work together, sharing ideas and good practice, taking us towards our shared ambition of a more prosperous world where no one is left behind. Not only is that the right thing to do for a common humanity; it is also the smart thing to do. An estimated three to seven per cent of gross domestic product (GDP) is lost in low- and middle-income countries due to exclusion of people with disabilities from labour markets. Tackling this issue, therefore, doesn’t just benefit people with disabilities but everyone. This doesn’t have to be complicated. Take Ali, for example. Ali is visually impaired — as a result of which he dropped out of school early and felt excluded and marginalised. Through the UK Aid-funded Spark programme, Ali received business training and established a kiosk. He now provides for his family and plays an active role in his community. VISUALLY IMPAIRED Or consider Istarlin, who is also visually impaired. We’re supporting Istarlin to continue her education by providing specialist software that enables her to study computer literacy, helping her to move towards her goal of working in an office. Or Christine, who has a physical impairment as a result of post-polio paralysis. We’re supporting her to participate in the literacy and numeracy classes she was so eager to take by providing accessible transport and an adapted desk. These are solutions which support people with disabilities to support themselves. As Istarlin put it: “Having a disability doesn’t stop us from living. We learn, and can depend on ourselves”. Technology provides a new opportunity to tackle disability inequality. In Kenya, the Silicon Savannah, up and coming young innovators are also looking at creative ways to support people with disabilities — from the sixth-sense echolocation mobility aid listed for the Royal Academy of Engineering’s Africa Prize to machines which produce prosthetics using 3D printers. SUPPORT EDUCATION The summit’s agenda and focus has been shaped by disabled people’s organisations. It will focus on all disabilities, including hidden ones. It will look at how we can support the education and economic empowerment of disabled people worldwide and will seek to end stigma, which prevents many people from participating in their society and community. At the end of the summit, governments will sign up to ambitious commitments. During my conversations with disability activists, I’ve heard their thoughts on what can be done to promote disability inclusion and equality in Kenya — from better data collection, leading to inclusive policy making, to better facilities to support people with physical impairments to lead independent lives. I know the Kenyan government has also heard those thoughts and is committed to supporting people with disabilities. The UK is ready to ensure all Kenyans have the opportunity to fulfil their potential. The summit is a call to action but it is just the beginning. Mr Hailey is the British High Commissioner to Kenya. Nairobi.enquiries@fco.gov.uk.  