The Court of Appeal has upheld the election of Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi, saying he was validly elected. The second highest court in the land on Tuesday said the appeal by Mr Sammy Waity lacked merit and there was nothing to make it overturn the decision of the High Court. SUPREME COURT According to justices Asike Makhandia, Fatuma Sichale and Sankale ole Kantai, claims by Mr Waity that Mr Muriithi should not have been cleared to contest the election having switched camps days to the election were baseless. They said the petitioner should have appealed against the decision or file a judicial review but not raise it in an election court. The court also observed that the main petitioner withdrew from the case and that the High Court was right in rejecting Mr Waity’s affidavits supporting the case. Mr Waity said after the decision that he will be moving to the Supreme Court. He was however happy that the costs slapped on him by the High Court were reduced from Sh12 million, saying it was excessive and unreasonable. The judges capped the amount to Sh1.5 million each to the governor, IEBC and the returning officer. MBEERE SOUTH At the same, the appeals court on Tuesday upheld the election of Mbeere South MP Geofrey King'ang'i. The judges said the petitioner, Mr Peter Kamau Nyutu, failed to prove any of the allegations he made. Mr Nyutu had claimed that the MP bribed voters, used witchcraft to bind voters before the elections and that his (the petitioner’s) agents were denied access to the polling stations. But Justices Asike Makhandia, Fatuma Sichale and Sankale ole Kantai said none of the allegations were proved. The judges further said the notice of appeal was not properly filed before the appellate court. They added that the returning officer, Ms Consolata Muthoni, satisfactorily explained cases where there were alterations in results. She said this happened because the forms were countersigned by the presiding officers.   In Nyeri, the High Court also dismissed a petition lodged against the nomination of MCAs.