Harambee Starlets coach David Ouma believes that his girls are capable of delivering an improved performance in this year’s Cecafa Women’s Championship which kicks off on July 19 in Rwanda. The Starlets were runners up two years ago when the tournament was last held in Uganda. Ouma, who guided the team to its first ever appearance at the African Women’s Cup of Nations in 2016, says that he has a revamped squad of young, talented players who are capable of winning the tournament. “Last time the team was unlucky to lose in the finals but this year we have a chance to make things right. All the five teams taking part in the competition are strong but we have a good team and we are getting good support from the federation. I believe we can win it this time if the girls can stay focused,” he said. Ouma is expected to guide the team of 26 players to a fortnight long training camp in Ruiru prior to their departure to Kigali. The squad is largely comprised of players who did duty for Kenya in the 2018 Africa Women Cup of Nations qualifiers against Uganda and Equatorial Guinea, with notable inclusions being Thika Queens custodian Monica Karambu, Gaspo Youth’s Elizabeth Wambui and Trans Nzoia Falcons’ Martha Amunyolete. Prolific forward Corazon Aquino will however miss this year’s edition as she is booked for trials with a top Swedish side later this month. Starlets are among the five teams that have confirmed participation in this year's Cecafa Women Senior Challenge which had earlier been scheduled for May 12-22 before being postponed due to lack of funds. According to the organisers, the matches will be played in a round robin format. Starlets lost 2-1 to Tanzania in the final of the 2016 edition in Jinja, and they will kick start their campaign with a match against the She Cranes of Uganda on July 19. Squad: Goalkeepers: Pauline Atieno (Makolanders), Annette Kundu (Eldoret Falcons), Monica Karambu (Thika Queens) Defenders: Elizabeth Ambogo (Spedag), Phelistas Kadari (Vihiga Queens), Dorcas Shikobe (Oserian Ladies), Anita Adongo (Oserian Ladies), Vivian Nasaka (Vihiga Queens), Lilian Adera (Vihiga Queens), Doris Anyango (Spedag), Wendy Achieng (Spedag) Midfielders: Caroline Anyango (Spedag), Ruth Ingosi (Eldoret Falcons), Sheryl Angachi (Gaspo Ladies), Cheris Avilia (Spedag), Cynthia Shilwatso (Vihiga Queens), Mwanalima Adams (Thika Queens), Esse Akida (Spedag), Mercy Achieng (Thika Queens) Forwards: Neddy Atieno (Makolanders), Terry Engesha (Vihiga Queens), Phoebe Owiti (Vihiga Queens), Martha Amunyolete (Trans-Nzoia Falcons), Maureen Kakhasa (Trans-Nzoia Falcons), Elizabeth Wambui (Gaspo Ladies), Monica Paul (Trans-Nzoia Falcons)  