In the past few months, Kenyan media have been brimming with scandal after scandal, mainly involving public procurement, counterfeits and contraband imports. This has led to heated debate during public commute, in social places and at workplaces filled with disgust, disappointment, awe and utter despair. The common phrase is “corruption”. But what is this corruption? According to various dictionaries, corruption is a form of dishonesty undertaken by a person entrusted with a position of authority, often to acquire personal benefit. In my field of expertise, we believe that decisions emanate from psychological motivation. Therefore, corruption as a behaviour is not exempt! But what are the psychological motivators of corruption? And can they be dissuaded? FIGHT CORRUPTION Corruption should not be viewed through the prism of a single entrenched problem but a collection of individual behaviours, each occurring in a specific context and at a particular decision point. The fight against corruption can only be achieved by targeting specific corrupt behaviours rather than attempting overarching sets of policies. That way, we can have pointers as to how to discourage such behaviours and reveal opportunities to address graft. It is in the best interest of the government, policymakers and the inept corruption-fighting agencies to understand the range of motivators and the consciousness behind corruption. Ill-advisedly, when viewing corruption by others, we often assume that it is driven by self-interest and done by fundamentally bad people. However, the psychology of corruption tells a different story. MORAL LICENSING Social pressure, present bias, mental ‘moral licensing’ (My pay does not reflect the value of my work, therefore I deserve more money), reciprocity (I need to reciprocate the favours I’ve received) and self-serving bias (I’m doing this not just for me but my boss won’t mind and it doesn’t hurt anyone) may affect an individual’s likelihood to engage in corrupt acts. “This is Kenya” is a common phrase used to explain one’s reason for offering or accepting a bribe. In psychology, social norms push us to act in the way we expect others to behave. The extent to which corrupt behaviours are widespread in society is likely to affect people’s expectations of honesty and, hence, their own behaviour. We update our beliefs about social norms with the information in our environment. For example, we are more likely to overtake dangerously when driving if we observe others perform the same behaviour. TRIBAL MISTRUST Kenya is bedevilled by a history of tribal mistrust, stolen elections and unfulfilled political promises. The resulting effect of this is low levels of social trust, people believing that most other people in their society cannot be trusted. A study by a behavioural insights team found that countries with historically low levels of trust have higher levels of corruption. Understanding patterns of social networks, obligations and trust in our current context should help us to revise and redesign tendering processes and mechanisms to encourage cooperation between actors unknown to each other. The diffusion of responsibility when it comes to corruption matters leads one to think there are no victims. Corruption is never victimless; when one is allowed to import poisoned milk or liquor, the eventual end users are the victims. DISHONEST BEHAVIOUR Tightening the rules and penalties and linking the eventual effect of an action can dissuade behaviours. Making the impact of corruption more at the top of the mind and personally relevant at key points in the decision journey could help people to more fully appreciate the impact of their dishonest behaviour on others. Kenya is a victim but also a country of rule violators. Research has shown that weak institutions and cultural legacies that generate rule violations not only have direct adverse economic consequences but might also impair individual intrinsic honesty that is crucial for the smooth functioning of society. In the search and fight for a fair, honest and less corrupt country, the authorities should design interventions to fight malfeasance, increase tax compliance and, maybe, improve intrinsic honesty. Mr McOkwiri, a behavioural economist in Nairobi and Dubai, is the founder, BEhub Behavioural Economics Hub.mcokwiri@live.com  