Extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances by suspected state agencies only win terrorists undeserved sympathy and more youths into their ranks, a human rights lobby has said. In his address to the United Nation member states at a high-level conference of heads of counter-terrorism agencies in New York, Haki Africa executive director, Mr Hussein Khalid, called on countries to put an end to the continued extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances of youths. “Research shows that majority of those killed and forcefully disappeared are youth,” said Mr Khalid while citing the recent disappearance of 18-year-old Husni Mbarak in Mombasa on May 25, 2018. COUNTERPRODUCTIVE The human rights activists said the hard line strategy of using extra-legal and unorthodox means to fight terrorism is not only counterproductive but also unconstitutional and illegal. “More importantly, extrajudicial killings and disappearances go against internationally accepted human rights standards, rule of law and anti-torture principles which member states have committed to in various UN instruments,” said Mr Khalid. The lobby urged member states to look into misuse of technology since recruiters use it to promote violent extremism and terrorism to young people. “Considering the importance of engaging youth and preventing misuse of technology, it is imperative that global efforts towards youth be strengthened to secure global safety and security,” said the Haki Afrika director. He said the group has been calling on East African countries to involve youth and youth-led organisations in counter-terrorism education. “In Kenya, the National Counter Terrorism Centre has been working with other civil society organisations, national government, Mombasa County government and Strong Cities Network to develop and adopt a people-centred policy that engages youth and other actors in countering violent extremism. Such initiatives should be supported and encouraged across the member states,” Mr Khalid told the delegates. Mr Khalid warned against unilateral operations that discriminate and alienate youth from certain communities, saying the war on terror will be won if all stakeholders work together.   Teenager was abducted by armed men suspected to be police on May 25 this year.