Runaway SportPesa Premier League leaders Gor Mahia on Sunday extended their dominance over eternal rivals AFC Leopards with a 2-1 win in the Mashemeji derby at Kasarani. George “Blackberry” Odhiambo struck the winner in the second half after Whyvonne Isuza had cancelled out Jacques Tuyisenge's opener for Gor Mahia to give the 16-time champions their 16th win of the campaign.   Leopards got the ball rolling in this 84th meeting between the two nemesis after a minute of silence in honour of the mother of former Harambee Stars captain Dennis Oliech, Mary Auma Oliech, who died on Friday after a long battle with cancer. Centre referee Israel Mpaima was forced to flash the first yellow card just five minutes into the match after Gor skipper Harun Shakava hacked down Jaffari Owiti on the left flank. Shakava, scorer of the lone goal in the two team’s last meeting in May in the Hull City Challenge, almost broke the deadlock in the 17th minute but his header from a George Odhiambo's cross hit the roof of the net. Five minutes later, Gor, who had until this point dominated proceedings, were 1-0 up through Tuyisenge after a comical blunder from Leopards defender Salim Abdallah. The Rwandan striker intercepted Salim's short back pass before beating goalkeeper Ezekiel Owade for the opener, as Leopards grinned in disbelief.   Tuyisenge thought he had doubled the lead in the 40th minute but his glancing header from Wafula Innocent’s pin-point cross missed the target by a whisker, as Leopards defenders yet again left the Rwandan hit-man unmarked in the area. Ingwe, looking increasingly vulnerable since going behind, were forced to go forward in search for an equaliser in the dying minutes of the half. Isaac Oduro came close from a free-kick which was gathered by Gor goalkeeper Boniface Oluoch - who was restored into the starting line-up after missing their midweek 4-0 win over Yanga in the Caf Confederation Cup. Isuza then sent the Leopards faithful in the stands into a frenzy with a well taken volley from inside the area deep into the first half's injury time to ensure the two rivals head for the drinks level.     Dennis Sikhayi took advantage after referee played on after Marvin Omondi was fouled outside the area, floated in a cross that Isuza brilliantly slotted home. Leopards introduced Nigerian striker Alex Orotumal for Marvin Omondi just before the second half started but it is Gor who found the back of the net yet again after some poor marking by the Leopards defence. Odhiambo finished off Francis Kahata’s weighted pass from inside the box to restore Gor’s on 54 minutes. Victory for Gor, their 16th in 20 matches, sends them to 52 points, 12 clear of second-placed Sofapaka and 16 better of Leopards who succumbed to their fifth loss of the season. “Massive three points and silencing critics, by beating AFC Leopards. People say they didn’t turn up for the party but they kept playing in their own half and we should’ve killed the game early on,” said Gor coach Dylan Kerr. His opposite number Rodolfo Zapata praised his charges despite the loss. “We played well, I am proud of my boys because we were unlucky,” he said, before being whisked away in a huff by the club's stewards who couldn’t allow him take in more questions.   Gor, who are chasing a treble, suffered an injury set back after Tuyisenge limped off shedding tears with 18 minutes to time. Kerr had to give his main striker a pat on the back as he escorted for treatment. Zapata, looking to salvage a point from the tie, made a double substitution in the 75th minute pulling out Edward Seda and Jaffari Owiti for Eugene Mukhangula and Vincent Oburu respectively. Gor responded by introducing new signing Francis Mustafa for the injured Tuyisenge.   Until the Burundian’s introduction in the 77th minute, Gor had played for about five minutes with 10 men, prompting their fans to hurl objects at the fourth official for "delaying" the change. Despite the late changes, Gor held on to go home with the bragging rights and three points. Their match to an unprecedented 17th league title now clear.  