President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday made changes in his Cabinet and diplomatic service. A statement from State House said the changes were part of the President's ongoing efforts to re-engineer the government inline with his 'Big Four' development blueprint. Here is the full list. Cabinet 1. Cabinet Secretary Aden Mohammed moves to the Ministry of East Africa Community and Regional Development in the same capacity. 2. CS Peter Munya is the new Cabinet Secretary for Industry, Trade and Co-operatives. 3. Professor Collete Suda moves to the Ministry of Education as Chief Administrative Secretary and Principal Secretary in charge of State Department for University Education. 4. Hon Simon Kachapin moves to the Ministry of Energy  as Chief Administrative Secretary. Principal Secretaries 1. Principal Secretary Charles Sunkuli moves to State Department for Devolution; 2. Principal Secretary  Nelson Marwa moves to Social Protection, Pension and Senior Citizens Affairs State Department; 3. Principal Secretary Zainab Abdalla Hussein moves to State Department for Correctional Services; 4. Principal Secretary Alfred Cheruiyot moves to the State Department of Post Training and Skills Development; 5. Principal Secretary Susan Mochache moves to the Environment and Forestry State Department; 6. Mr. Joe Okudo is re-appointed as Principal Secretary for the Tourism State Department; 7. Dr. Margaret Mwakima becomes Principal Secretary for Wildlife State Department; 8. Dr. Ibrahim A. Mohammed has been re-appointed and will be the Principal Secretary in the State Department of Labour. 9. Mrs. Fatuma Hirsi has been re-appointed to be Principal Secretary Broadcasting and Telecommunication State Department; and 10. Prof. Micheni Japheth Ntiba moves as Principal Secretary to Fisheries, Aquaculture and The Blue Economy State Department. Ambassadors The following have been nominated for positions of Ambassador subject to approval by Parliament: 1. Mrs. Sarah Serem 2. Lt. Gen Samuel Thuita 3. Mr. Francis Muhoro 4. Mr. Manoah Esipisu 5. Mr. Paddy Ahenda 6. Amb. Peter Nicholas Oginga Ogego 7. Johnson Kimani Ondieki 8. Chris Karumba Mburu 9. Hon. Benjamin Langat  