Pre-engineering works for the Sh5.8 billion Likoni cable cars express are complete, paving the way for construction. The construction of the multibillion-shilling cable car is to begin before August, according to Kenya Ferry Services MD Bakari Gowa. Mr Gowa said engineers are awaiting a nod from the Cabinet to begin work on the project. “When we get the green light, the investor will sign a financial agreement with the project handlers,” Mr Gowa told the Nation yesterday. LANDING STATIONS Trapos is the company sponsoring the project. It signed a concession agreement with Kenya Ferry Services in December 2017. According to the agreement, the project will be handled by Likoni Cable Cars Express Ltd for 25 years. Mr Gowa said pre-engineering works involved the survey of the sites where landing stations and masts would be built. The landing station will be built over the road. The KFS chief said the land dispute, which also contributed to the delay of the project, has been resolved. 90-METRE MAST “We are in the process of getting a title deed for the land where the two major masts will be built. The masts and the landing stations are the main installations in this project,” Mr Gowa added. KFS and the Kenya National Highways Authority were involved in a dispute over land on the mainland side of the Likoni channel. The Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure intervened to end the row. The construction will be done by C&C company, he said. The contractor will be in-charge of the infrastructure, which includes two 90-metre masts and two landing stations. TECHNOLOGY C&C will work with Doppelmayr Group, which will be in charge of the technological part of the project. Doppelmayr Group manufactures ropeways, cable cars and ski lifts. It is expected to transfer the technology and operate the system with Likoni Cable Express Ltd. The project is being undertaken under the 2012 Public-Private Partnership Act. GONDOLA SYSTEM According to government officials, its completion will take two years. It is expected to generate hundreds of jobs, during the construction period and after completion. The iconic project has been lauded by stakeholders in the hospitality industry who say it will be the critical driver of tourism in the south Coast. The cable express car is expected to be a state-of-the-art gondola system connecting either side of the channel. The cars will work for seven days of the week, crossing the channel in less than three minutes. The project is the first of its kind in Kenya and is slated to be the first commuter aerial cable car system in Sub-Sahara.   Commuters expected to start enjoying cable car services from 2020.