The cold and chilly weather will continue in most parts of the country with Central and Western regions set to receive rainfall for the next five days. This is according to a five-day forecast released by the Kenya Meteorological Department. Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, and Tharaka Nithi counties will experience mainly cool and cloudy mornings with the possibility of light rains that will give way to short sunny intervals with occasional afternoon light showers. “Most areas in the Central highlands and Nairobi are expected to experience cold and cloudy conditions with occasional light rains. The day time temperatures are likely to be slightly cooler than average,” warned Ms Mary Kilavi, Nairobi County director of meteorological services. The temperature is expected to fall to as low as 5 degrees Celsius. South eastern lowlands covering counties of Kajiado, Kitui, Makueni, Machakos and Taita Taveta will experience mainly cool and cloudy mornings breaking into sunny intervals throughout the forecast period with temperatures as low as 9 degrees Celsius. RAINS Counties of Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo and Uasin Gishu will experience morning rains over few places breaking into sunny intervals. Showers and thunderstorms will be experienced over several places in the afternoon between Saturday and Tuesday with temperatures dropping to lows of 9 degrees Celsius. Similar weather pattern will also be experienced in Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia counties. In the Coastal region covering Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale counties, sunny intervals will dominate the week. RESPIRATORY DISEASES Ms Kilavi warned there is a risk of spike in respiratory diseases such as asthma, pneumonia and common colds in areas that will experience chilly weather and advised the public, especially the young and elderly, to adopt warm dress code. In Western and Nyanza, cases of Malaria may increase because of the flooding that occurred during the March-April-May season and expected rainfall. “During chilly days, people are advised not to warm themselves close to charcoal stoves in poorly ventilated houses with closed windows. Burning charcoal produces carbon monoxide that is lethal when inhaled,” she said.  