Sofapaka will be without their star striker Umaru Kasumba on Sunday as they tackle Mathare United at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos. The Ugandan is out of action for two months with hip injury. Kasumba, who picked the injury last weekend during his team’s 2-0 win over Wazito, has been a regular starter at Batoto ba Mungu, and has contributed four league goals for them so far. Sofapaka coach John Baraza now has to rely on the productive trio of Kepha Aswani, Pistone Mutamba and Stephen Waruru who have 19 goals between them so far. “I feel sorry for him, and I hope he recovers fully in good time. This is however a call for to the rest of us to step up and help the team. I have set a personal target of 15 goals and also to maintain a place in the national team so I just have to work hard in this match and throughout the season,” said Mutamba. Sofapaka are placed second on the league table, 12 points adrift of leaders Gor Mahia who have two games in hand. Sunday’s match will present the 2009 champions with a good opportunity to avenge the 3-1 loss they suffered against Mathare in their first leg match, while helping them close down on the massive gap between them and Gor. If they are to defeat Sofapaka, Mathare will need to put up an improved performance as they have recorded four consecutive draws. Mathare will miss Samwel Ndung'u, Abubakar Keya and Andrew Juma due to injuries, although coach Francis Kimanzi will benefit from the return of John Mwangi who was out with illness and Johnston Omurwa who returns from a one-match suspension. “We have been recording more draws than wins, but one point is better than none at all. We shall be playing away against a tough team but we shall try our best to win and record a double over them,” said Mathare captain George Owino, who returned last weekend from a two-month injury layoff. Former champions Tusker and AFC Leopards will host Nakumatt and Sony Sugar at Ruaraka and Machakos respectively, while Ulinzi Stars will face Kariobangi Sharks in Nakuru. FIXTURES Saturday Bandari v Kakamega Homeboyz (Mombasa, 3pm), Zoo Kericho v Chemelil Sugar (Kericho Green Stadium, 3pm) Sunday Sofapaka v Mathare United (Machakos Stadium, 2pm), Nzoia Sugar v Posta Rangers (Sudi Stadium, 3pm), Tusker v Nakumatt (Ruaraka Grounds, 3pm), Ulinzi Stars v Kariobangi Sharks (Afraha Stadium, 3pm), Wazito v Vihiga United (Camp Toyoyo, 3pm), AFC Leopards v Sony Sugar (Machakos Stadium, 4.15pm).  