The Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) Secretary-General Wilson Sossion has threatened to call a nationwide teachers' strike on September 1 should their employer not stop the ongoing performance appraisals and delocalisation of teachers. Speaking at Urban Primary school in Embu during the local branch annual general meeting on Saturday, Mr Sossion said teachers were being forced to fill forms at cyber cafes since schools were not equipped with proper ICT centres. The Knut secretary-general said the appraisals were meant to humiliate and bully teachers. He said the Teachers Service Commission should formulate other modes of assessing teachers’ performance. PROMOTION Mr Sossion also demanded that teachers, who have acquired relevant higher qualifications, be automatically promoted and their salaries adjusted from the date of their graduation. He said that TSC had turned against teachers instead of safeguarding their interests. Mr Sossion said the morale of teachers was low because of the stringent rules on appraisals, fear of delocalisation and failure to promote those who had acquired new certificates. He said most teachers struggled to raise fees in their quest for higher education and their efforts should be rewarded by the government. His remarks were supported by Runyenjes MP Eric Muchangi who noted that teachers spent most of their time at cyber cafes filing appraisal forms instead of teaching. TEACHERS' STRIGGLE The MP promised to raise the matter in Parliament for review. “The TSC is what it is because of the struggle of the teachers of this country. We wanted an employer with the capacity to recruit and manage the welfare of the teachers and not one that would be used to humiliate, bully and hurt teachers,” said Mr Sossion. “From 2015, the reforms and policies being undertaken by TSC are meant to humiliate teachers. We are being forced to use our own money to fill (appraisal) forms in cyber cafes. We were not trained to work in cyber cafes, this is workplace bullying and we shall bury it by September 1, 2018,” said Mr Sossion.   Knut says teachers are spending a lot of time in cyber cafes downloading forms.