Tala Academy in Machakos County, whose students and a teacher were arrested last month in Nairobi for being drunk, now risks deregistration while 12 unregistered teachers could face prosecution. Teachers Service Commission (TSC) Chief Executive Officer Nancy Macharia has written to the Ministry of Education’s Principal Secretary Belio Kipsang asking him to take action against the school which could be deregistered. Mrs Macharia has also written to Inspector-General Police Joseph Boinnet asking to prosecute the board of directors for recruiting unregistered teachers to handle students while the 12 teachers will also face the law. DRUNK The students were arrested in Nairobi last month in the company of a teacher over allegations of being drunk and disorderly while travelling on an academic tour. TSC then instituted investigations into the matter with a view to taking action against registered teachers at the school found to be culpable. Mrs Macharia said in the course of investigations, it was discovered that the school’s board had engaged people not registered as teachers to teach, contrary to section 52(I)(b) of the Basic Education Act, No. 14 of 2013. UNREGISTERED TEACHERS “Out of 19 persons engaged at the school as teachers, 12 were not registered teachers and were consequently in contravention of section (44(I)(b) of the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) Act , 2012,” said Mrs Macharia in two different letters dated July 3 to Mr Boinnet and Dr Kipsang. Mrs Macharia wants the school’s board of directors charged with the offence of “not recruiting registered teachers contrary to section (52)1(b) of the Basic Education Act. She went on: “Accordingly, the 12 have jointly and severally committed the offence of falsely or fraudulently holding themselves out to be registered teachers contrary to section 44(I) (b) of the TSC Act.” After the incident, students were released to their parents and guardians. According to the law, only teachers who are registered with TSC are allowed to teach students in public and private schools.   TSC wants Tala Academy board of directors prosecuted for recruiting unregistered teachers.