IN MOSCOW, RUSSIA When England won the 1966 World Cup on home soil, coach Gareth Southgate had not been born. That would happen four years later. But when he leads England against 20th-ranked Croatia in the 2018 World Cup semi-final tonight from 9pm here at Luzhniki Stadium, the 47-year-old will be hoping to guide the “Three Lions” to only their second final appearance at the World Cup. At the same time, Harry Kane will be hoping to add to his six goals in the race for the Golden Boot. Three Lions, ranked 12th globally, will be aiming to reach the final for the first time since 1966 when they won the tournament on home ground. The team will be playing in its second semi-final at the World Cup since 1990 in Italy when the team finished fourth. Southgate himself would join the team eight years later. Since 1990, the team has carried the tag of perennial underachievers in subsequent editions of the World Cup, and Southgate is no stranger to pressure that comes with playing at the global stage, having been part of England’s squad for 1998 World Cup in France and the 2002 tournament in South Korea and Japan. Last year, Southgate coached England’s Under-21 team to the semi-finals of Uefa European Under-21 Championships in Poland. By guiding England to the semi-finals here, Southgate has won back most of the team’s strongest critics at home and instilled a sense of self-belief in his squad so much the English fans believe their team can go all the way to win the title. That enthusiasm has been reflected in the coverage English press has given the team. Defender Kyle Walker summarized the weight on Southgate’s shoulders in a press conference here. “We’ve been trying to put smiles back on faces, and hopefully make everyone fall back in love with England,” Walker said on Monday. Defender Ashley Young remained guarded in his assessment of his team’s 2-0 victory over Sweden in the quarter-finals on Saturday. “It was good to get the victory but we haven’t won anything and there is no need to celebrate as we have tougher matches ahead so there is a lot to play for,” he said. SUB PLOT The other sub-plot in Wednesday’s match will be Harry Kane’s race to the golden boot. The Tottenham Hotspur striker has played in all of England’s matches here except their Group ‘G’ match against Belgium which they lost 1.0. Having played four matches, Kane tops the list with six goals going into tonight’s match, followed by Belgium’s Romelu Lukaku on four goals. Although Russia’s Denis Cheryshev and Portugal’s Cristiano Ronaldo are also on four goals, they have left the tournament, leaving Lukaku and France’s Antoine Griezmann and Kylian Mbappe (three goals each) to battle Kane for the Golden Boot. Three of Kane’s six goals have come from the penalty spot. Belgium’s Eden Hazard and Croatia’s Luka Modric have scored two goals each in the tournament.  