Some counties are yet to pass their budgets even after the lapse of the 2017/2018 financial year. The Public Finance Management Act requires that county budgets be passed and approved by June 30. The counties include Homa Bay, Kericho, Nakuru and Nyandarua. Homa Bay County's Sh8 billion budget is in limbo after ward representatives refused to pass it. A section of MCAs have demanded that the executive explains how funds allocated for development in the last budget were used before they pass the current budget, which is now beyond the deadline. MORE TIME Rusinga MCA Okuku Miregi and his Kochia counterpart Ojalla Nyang’ii questioned how more than Sh100 million allocated for development under the Rapid Response Initiative (RRRI) was used. “We cannot be used as a rubberstamp to approve budgets which do not benefit the residents,” said Mr Miregi. Yesterday, the MCAs were holed up in Kisumu to deliberate on issues regarding the budget. Kosewe Ward MCA and Budget Appropriations Committee chairman Nicholas Owaka said the assembly would request the office of the Controller of Budget to allocate them more time to iron out contentious issues. But Finance Executive Nicholas Koriko refuted claims that a rift between the assembly and the county executive had resulted in the delay. STAND-OFF In Nakuru, a tussle between MCAs and Governor Lee Kinyanjui over establishment of a Sh2 billion ward development kitty, and recent attempts by a section of ward representatives to impeach Speaker Joel Kairu, may have led to the delay. Twice, Governor Lee Kinyanjui declined to sign the bill that sought to create the fund, leading to a stand-off. The 78-member assembly had unanimously passed the Nakuru County Revenue Allocation Bill 2018 in January, touting it as the most progressive bill to fight runaway poverty at ward level. VALIDATION Majority Leader Stanley Karanja told the Nation that MCAs had agreed to race against time and have the budget validated this week before it is passed. “We have decided to set aside this week’s Wednesday and Thursday sessions for budget validation,” said Mr Karanja in a telephone interview. In Nyandarua, County Secretary Hiram Kahiro yesterday said a Sh6.3 billion budget would be presented to the county assembly and read on Tuesday. In Kericho, an impasse between the County Assembly and the Executive could derail priority financing. MEMORANDUM The county has recently been at a standstill, affecting the next budget. This is after ward reps accused Governor Paul Chepkwony of refusing to approve the budget which they passed unanimously a fortnight ago. The MCAs also voted down a memorandum in which the governor was objecting to the budget. The governor, on his part, claims that the assembly unlawfully introduced amendments exceeding one per cent into the budget which he had forwarded to them for consideration. Reporting by Fadhili Fredrick, Anita Chepkoech, Barack Oduor, Francis Mureithi and Waikwa Maina  