Throughout history, neither the most notorious perpetrators, nor the majority of victims, wish to acknowledge that racism is a virulently insidious behaviour pattern which is actually alive and thriving almost everywhere in the world today, and that it has been part and parcel of the human condition since time immemorial. Those who believe in, and practise, racial discrimination prefer to live in denial. In private, they readily confess to their soul-mates that they cannot stand people of colour. On the other hand, the victims would rather pretend if they didn’t talk about it, it wouldn’t exist. Talking about this most bizarre form of human relationship makes many uncomfortable, which means those who believe in their innate racial superiority would rather pretend they cannot change what was meant to be by nature. But it is now clear that racism is a cultural and economic invention to justify domination and does not, in fact, have any scientific basis. WORLD CUP This matter was brought to the fore during the recent outburst by a most unlikely of victims. Football lovers were caught by surprise when German soccer star Mesut Ozil abruptly quit the German national team after Germany’s ignominious exit from the World Cup in Russia. The Germans, who were favourites to retain the World Cup which they won in 2014, were bundled out by unfancied South Korea in the group stage. Strangely, Ozil was blamed for the defeat, with a far-right party spokesperson accusing him of disloyalty to Germany and its values because he and a colleague had, before the games, been photographed with Turkey’s hardline president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan. As Ozil complained, racists among the media, lawmakers, soccer fans and even his own federation officials, had a real ball seeking a scapegoat and he fitted the bill perfectly. Here is a player of Turkish origin who had just taken a photo with a dictator from his motherland causing Germany to lose to minnows! MESUT OZIL Never mind that Ozil is a German born of Turkish parents. Never mind he was instrumental in Germany’s triumph during the 2014 campaign. Ozil was to dismiss his critics with the memorable observation: “I am a German when we win, an immigrant when we lose”. For anyone who has undergone such experience, it is easy to understand this frustration. But he is lucky. Many in his predicament do not even have a venue to voice those frustrations. Although Ozil is not even black, he would sympathise with the race problems encountered by his fellow players in Europe who have suffered even worse insults merely because of their skin colour. MONKEY CHANTS Folks like Samuel Eto’o, Mario Balotelli, Kevin-Prince Boateng and Kevin Constant have had to endure frequent on-pitch humiliation of monkey chants directed at them. However, my favourite has always been Dani Alves, the Brazilian player. When a banana was thrown at him as he was about to take a corner, he calmly picked it up and started wolfing it down while kicking the ball like the professional he was. Many Kenyans do not know how lucky they are that they have never encountered overt or even covert racial prejudice. Those who do are keenly aware of how crushing it is to the spirit. It is a pity that reverse racism is also common, especially in major hotels and game lodges, where Kenyan waiters treat fellow citizens like dirt. But the less said of this aberration, the better. In many ways, we Kenyans are our own worst enemies. THOMAS JEFFERSON If racism is defined as a belief in the innate superiority of one race over another – physically, intellectually, morally and economically — then one can say without fear of contradiction that it will never end. We Africans, and the Black race in general, will always bear the brunt of its depravations because we have never really liberated ourselves from the shackles of self-deprecation. We are always seeking ways to put ourselves down, which makes it easy for others to despise us. On a different note, it was amusing to read about one of the Founding Fathers of the United States of America, principal author of the Declaration of Independence, and third president. In his lofty preamble to the Declaration, Thomas Jefferson wrote: “We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their creator with certain inalienable rights, that among these are Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness ...” RACIAL BIGOTRY This is the same gentleman who not only owned 600 slaves but also declared blacks are “inferior in the endowments both of body and mind”. A latter-day abolitionist, he wanted the freed slaves to be sent far away from the US, hence the idea of resettling them in Liberia. If such a revered figure can have so many contradictions in his moral outlook, there is little hope that racial bigotry will end any time soon. Over 100 years after Jefferson, the 45th president, Donald Trump, would heartily applaud. andrewngwiri@gmail.com  