Recent reports of Zambian legislators visiting Nairobi to learn from their Kenyan counterparts on anti- corruption strategies and experiences were received with surprise, bemusement and cynicism. With anti-corruption legislation in place since 1956, Kenya has a long history of public action and policy in this space. It is a fine example of countries that have attempted to implement mostly externally prescribed strategies and plans, but without tangible results. Indeed, there is much that other developing countries can learn from such a disheartening experience. Despite public pronouncements by the political leadership, and the existence of some anti-corruption efforts, the country is consistently ranked among the world’s most corrupt nations. The new political dispensation and its devolved governance have led to an exponential growth, intensification, dispersion and diffusion of corruption and its agents. Reports of financial scandals, mismanagement and loss of large sums of taxpayers’ money by the Auditor-General, have led to an erosion of public trust in the government’s ability to address the issue. END CORRUPTION Performance of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, along with the Office of the Director of Public Prosecution, is dismal. There is palpable skepticism that the national and regional governments have the willingness and capacity to end this vice. Recent directive by the President that government officials should be subjected to lie detector tests has been dismissed by some as being too simplistic, unworkable and reactionary. The country needs to hold soul searching exercise on the means and ways of ridding itself of this problem. Past experiences can help predict future action. Successive Kenyan governments have been remarkable in hoodwinking the public and development partners through half-hearted attempts to implement anti-corruption strategies. Often, such measures are prescribed by development partners, including the World Bank, the IMF and the United Nations. Development cooperation involving financial and non-financial assistance as well as capacity building has helped set up several State institutions positioned to tackle corruption. Today, our disproportionately large numbers of those championing the anti-corruption causes and good governance, including the civil society, commissioners, national and county legislators, and those with prosecutorial powers, are probably among top earners in their groups globally, if not, in the region. CONSTANT DISAPPOINTMENT That notwithstanding, reports of public corruption have dominated mainstream and social media platforms. Since its inception, the anti-corruption agency has been a source of constant disappointment. The public is yet to receive meaningful returns on its resources and assets given to the agency. While real constrains to the capacity of this agency to discharge its constitutional mandates exist, the commission has clearly demonstrated its reluctance to go after well-known, politically connected fat cats. There are no reasons to believe that the commission can successfully dismantle cartels and fix economic saboteurs. Corrupt government and opposition operatives are united in rendering the commission impotent. Lawmakers have failed to shore up its performance through restructure, empowerment and adequate resources. Government and opposition lawmakers have not shied away from calling for its disbandment to curtail investigations against some of them. We have learned, in the fullness of time, that this commission serves no real purpose. It is an erected edifice to appease the donor community. POWERFUL INDIVIDUALSDefined as a situation where powerful individuals, institutions, companies or groups within or outside a country use corruption to shape a nation’s policies, legal environment and economy to benefit their own private interests, State capture is considered one of the most pervasive and harmful forms of corruption. News that politically connected individuals imported large quantities of tainted sugar into the country could be indicative that corruption may have morphed into the dangerous phase of State capture. Up until now, the government is unable to craft a coherent narrative. Opposition leaders and other stakeholders are unwilling to bring greater attention to this situation with potentially grave health and economic consequences for millions of Kenyans. Strangely, some opposition figures are publicly defending the government’s decision and siding with the cartels. Former Kakamega Senator, Boni Khalwale shocked his supporters by claiming that the consumption of mercury-laden sugar was harmless. He defended the cartels on national television, arguing that this importation, and the subsequent flooding of the markets by cheap, tax-exempt and potentially poisonous sugar was beneficial to cane growers in Kenya. BIZARRE STANCE In retrospect, Mr Khalwale’s bizarre stance is not surprising at all. It is sad that individuals entrusted with the responsibility of protecting public interests, and leading the battle against corruption could be self-seeking, insincere and easily corrupted. Anti-corruption strategies have failed largely due to the lack of political will. This is simply self-preservation; a majority of those projecting power and influence - inside and outside of the government are beneficiaries of the corrupt legal, political and economic system. The same can be said of individuals that have either led or are contributing to the anti-corruption struggle. This is the new normal. The occasional high drama on the streets of Nairobi executed by activists is a charade meant to hoodwink the public and donors. Such displays have yielded no real results, yet activists have received large sums of money. To a realist, a pessimist or both, only a revolution could redeem the republic, and it may seem that the country is surely and steadily marching towards this eventuality. No amount of donor money and goodwill can rid our system of corruption. The battle must be waged in the name of self-determinism. FRENCH REVOLUTION Corruption and civil suppression were the primary factors that brought about the 10-year French Revolution, which began in 1789, and toppled King Charles X. In that French society, corruption was reportedly so pervasive and widespread, affecting all government dealings and sectors. The political elite were too blinded by pursuit of personal enrichment that they failed to pay attention to the cries of the people. Selfish interests informed State operations and decisions. There were no attempts to enact legislation to bring about social reforms. Long ensnared in the mess, the Catholic Church was woefully compromised and beholden to the corrupt monarch. And when the monarch became bankrupt, it resorted, with the support of the Catholic Church, to bring about new taxes on an already overburdened and frustrated population. It was the government’s decision to end the public works which had provided relief to the unemployed in Paris that finally sparked the riots and eventually led to the overthrow of the monarch. Corruption has become endemic, affecting all spheres of Kenyan life. LOOTING PUBLIC RESOURCES Since independence, our governments have, like the 18 Century corrupt French monarchs, acted with indifference. Looting of public resources continues unabated, with confessed thieves, who carted away millions of shillings in sacks, roaming freely and living high on their ill-gotten wealth. Most of our religious leaders, like the French Catholic Church, are busy amassing dirty money. Governments are disciplined by democratic processes, which are slow and often ineffective. Kenyans of goodwill must stand up, mobilise, drive and own this campaign. They must seek real reforms, good governance, social justice and accountability, and demand that illicitly acquired assets are swiftly confiscated and liquidated by the State. Key architects of mega-scandals must be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law and be compelled to pay for their economic crimes. In view of the intricate web of cartels, this may be easier said than done. It would be a mistake to expect the current leadership to champion this fight given the many signs that all three arms of our government may be too compromised. But they have other options. STAGNANT In general, any large organisation not facing the discipline of competition soon become stagnant, inefficient and eventually corrupt. Monopolies are known to abuse their powers and engender corruption in situations where regulatory frameworks and institutions are weak or lacking. Against this backdrop, advocates of deregulation and privatisation argue that such reforms are good for long term structural transformation and widen the scope of competitive markets in allocating resources, restraining prices and stimulating productivity. Curtailing of monopoly powers through competition is not only necessary for the realisation of efficiency and productivity gains; it is a viable means of eliminating opportunities for corruption, mismanagement of State corporations, and abuse of power. The country must revisit the reform agenda, with the goal of pursuing, as necessary, further privatisation and greater deregulation. LONG-TERM SOLUTIONS If well managed, such reforms could bring about industry-level competition and help eradicate certain forms of corruption. It is instructive that the country’s relatively competitive telecommunication sector, as a whole, can be said to be far less corrupt than when it was dominated by the defunct Kenya Post and Telecommunication Corporation monopoly. While there is room for further work in this area, this approach is quite limited since there are sectors where natural, often State, monopolists are desirable and optimal. This reality aside, economic theory and practice offers other proven, long-term solutions to most types of corruption. Mr Chesoli is a New York-based development economist and global policy expert (kenchesoli@gmail.com)  