Swiss President Alain Berset will next week land in Kenya for a two-day visit to hold talks with President Uhuru Kenyatta on regional security and Jubilee’s 'Big Four' agenda. President Berset, who was elected to the post in December for a one-year non-renewable term, will be in Kenya on July 9 and 10. The visit comes after renewed relations between Kenya and Switzerland, with Bern opening its new Embassy building in Gigiri two years ago. TIES “Our partnership has since occasioned great progress in the health and development sectors and restored social security for many Kenyan people. The visit by the Swiss President is therefore intended to strengthen these close ties and identify other areas of cooperation particularly on the 'Big Four' agenda,” a statement by State House spokesperson Manoah Esipisu said. President Kenyatta has singled out universal healthcare, affordable housing, manufacturing and food security — legacy-driven targets he has singled out as the Big Four. In Health, Mr Esipisu said that the visit by President Berset will seek to strengthen the ties in the development of Africa’s pharmaceutical industry in areas of generic medicine, prescription drugs, over-the-counter medication and medical devices. Norvatis, a Swiss healthcare company, is a key partner in the industry and in 2015 Kenya was the first country to launch its Norvatis Access Programme which is being implemented through Kenya Medical Supplies Agency and select local health institutions. SECURITY Hoestch, another Swiss company, State House said, was also playing a key role in the bid to achieve the universal Health coverage as a key pharmaceutical distributor. The Swiss government will also discuss its contribution in the water and livestock sectors in the arid and semi-arid areas. A former interior minister, President Berst will also hold talks with his host President Kenyatta on regional security especially efforts made under the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (Igad). Through the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC), Switzerland has been working with agencies at the Kakuma refugee camp, with the first phase of the project covering 580 refugees and residents equipped with vocational skills.  