National Super League side Modern Coast Rangers have sounded the war drums ahead of their SportPesa Shield round of 16 clash against Kariobangi Sharks at the Mbaraki grounds on Saturday. This is one of five games lined up in the competition this weekend, with Sofapaka up against Western Stima at the Narok Stadium on Sunday providing another highlight. Speaking to Nation Sport, Rangers team manager Ferdinand Ogot expressed confidence the return of strikers Francis Ocholla and George Owiti could make the difference for his side, which is sponsored by the Modern Coast Bus Company. "We have lost our last two games in the league because Ocholla and Owiti were missing, with their return, we will have our best team to give Sharks a good game," said Ogot. Rangers will, however, miss the services of left back Dennis Owino who's injured his left knee, and Dickens Mwema, who is out with a groin injury. For his part, Kariobangi Sharks midfielder Sven Yidah says the SportPesa Premier League outfit is aiming to go one better compared to the second placed finish attained last year when they lost toe AFC Leopards 2-0 in the competition's final. "Modern Coast will offer us a different kind of problem because we don't know them very well and they will also be playing at home. I think this is the biggest game of their season and I expect them to work very hard," the 20-year-old explained. In other fixtures, Vihiga United will play host to Ulinzi Stars at the Mumias Complex while Tusker have an easier task, atleast on paper, against minnows Bungoma Superstars in Narok. The tournament's winner will be awarded Sh2 million and also offered a chance to compete in the money spinning Caf Confederation Cup next year. FIXTURES Saturday Modern Coast Rangers v Kariobangi Sharks - Mbaraki grounds, 3pm) Friend Zone v River Plate (Narok Stadium, 1pm) Kenya Police v Leysa (Narok Stadium, 3:15pm) Sunday: Vihiga United v Ulinzi Stars (Mumias Complex, 3pm) Tusker v Bungoma Superstars (Narok Stadium, 1pm) Sofapaka v Western Stima (Narok Stadium, 3:15pm) Wednesday: AFC Leopards v Mwatate United (Kasarani Stadium, 2pm) Posta Rangers v Gor Mahia (Kasarani, 4:15pm)  