After completing her secondary school education in 2013, Rose Njeri knew what she wanted to do with her life; she wanted to be a motor vehicle mechanic. Rose, the youngest child in a family of eight – five girls and three boys, realised her passion for cars when she was younger. She often preferred to play with her brothers and play with boys’ toys, and was fascinated by cars. Rose sat for her Kenya Certificate for Secondary Education (KCSE) exam in Mununga High School, Murang’a County, and scored a D (plain). She then decided to chase her dreams of automotive engineering in college.    In 2015, she enrolled for the course and graduated a year later with a certificate in car wiring, lighting systems and automotive engineering. “This was like a dream come true as I wanted to be a mechanic all along...My father knew I had a passion for [motor] mechanics and that is why he supported me to pursue it,” she says. In 2017, Rose got her first job in Adams along Ngong Road, Nairobi. She enjoyed working in the open-air garage but later moved to another one in Roysambu. Her job is not always easy, especially when people don’t trust that she, as a woman, can repair their vehicles. But Rose, 24, put up a spirited fight, diligently served her customers, and with time, they trusted her to fix their cars. “As a female in this business, I have been underestimated by my male counterparts and motor vehicle owners, and it takes a long time before they trust that I can work on their vehicles,” she says “[But] I would always do an incredible job for them – whether it was cleaning the plugs, checking and servicing the engine, changing brake pads and many others – until they believed in me.” Most of her customers come back for service and often ask for her. Rose thanks her mentor Francis Mwaura who has been very supportive, and has mentored her and ensured she was given a chance to prove herself at work. Francis, who has worked as a mechanic for the last 10 years, praised Rose for her passion for the job and determination in being the best she can be. “Rose is the only woman in this open-air garage that has more than 50 male mechanics. She has shown tremendous work spirit, which has made some customers ask for her,” he says.    As is often seen in most jua kali jobs, workers compete for clients and it is no different in Rose’s line of work. To get return clients, Rose works diligently to create trust and ensures high-quality work to keep them coming back. “I had to get tough in this job because, as you can see, I am the only female mechanic here. I have to fight, not literally, but to give my all in what I do, to get some money at the end of the day. This job puts bread on my table,” she adds. Rose hopes that one day she will rise up the ranks, be an industry expert and also work in more established motor vehicle companies. She encourages girls to pursue their passions and work hard to realise their dreams. She urges them not to be discouraged and that there is no specific job for women or for men – they can excel in the careers they choose. *** Do you have feedback on this story? E-mail: lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com   A project management class changed her view on seeking employment.