The 80-year-old woman from Murang’a County who hit the headlines recently after she was gunned down by police during the rescue of a kidnap victim has been buried. The woman was killed on July 19 as she tried to shield her accomplices, two of whom were armed and whom she helped escape. Ms Wambui Muturi was buried Friday at her home in Irewa village of Gatundu Location in a low key burial ceremony characterised by tension and fear amongst the locals. In an event that started at around 11.50am after the burial of another suspect, Samuel Kimani Kang'ethe, a relative of the woman, locals who had earlier kept their distance came closer after Kang’ethe’s burial. The bodies of the two were removed from the Murang’a County mortuary at 9.30am. CONFUSION After arriving at the homes which are 150 meters apart, family members decided to start by burying Kang'ethe and then the granny, a move that confused some relatives who had not arrived by the time their kin made the decision, unsure which burial to attend first. The Anglican and Catholic churches where the two families worshipped distanced themselves from the burials. At exactly 11.10am Kangethe’s burial ceremony begun and since no photos were being taken and no government representatives was present, the ceremony took about 40 minutes, probably to give a chance to the mourners to bury Ms Muturi.   STOP CRIME Mr Karanja Muriu, Kangethe’s uncle who was the master of ceremonies, did not mince his words as he warned his relatives not to engage in crime and to stop embarrassing the family and the village. “We have lots of churches surrounding us but we are not adhering to Christian teachings and have embarrassed the society. No wants to associate themselves with this village due to the death of Mr Kang'ethe and my aunt. I think we should convene a meeting to establish where we went wrong,” Mr Muriu said. He narrated how they were taken in circles trying to get a police officer to witness the post-mortems of the bodies. He implored the family members to be law-abiding citizens. The priest who presided over the ceremonies said the family needed prayers so that they can change their ways. SHORT SERMON After a short sermon, Mr Kang'ethe was laid to rest near two other graves – that of his brother and his father – while the granny was buried less than 50 meters from her home where she was killed. She was buried next to her husband and her four sons who died under similar circumstances. Uniformed police officers and others in civilian clothing closely followed the goings on. There were no public address systems, eulogies or photo sessions at both funerals, with some relatives complaining that the funeral programme was planned haphazardly “as if it was them who had wronged”. “They deserved a better send-off than this. We required a public address system to enable the servants of God preach and eulogies like in other ceremonies. This is not fair to the deceased and to us,” one man said. After the granny’s burial ceremony ended at 1pm, villagers hurriedly left leaving behind food which had been prepared for mourners.   There are fears some victims could have been killed and buried after failing to pay ransom.