Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has promised to end the constant arrest and detention of Kenyan fishermen by Ugandan security personnel. While meeting top security officials and provincial administration officers from Homa Bay County, Dr Matiang’i said those who harass Kenyan fishermen will soon know the country’s security apparatus is strong. “When our people go for their fishing activities they are arrested. In the near future, people are going to realise that we have a proper security apparatus,” said Dr Matiang’i. He said the state has beefed up security in the affected islands following the outcry of fishermen and leaders from the region. INSECURITY “This matter of our people being troubled in Lake Victoria must end. We are going to step up security and the management of this place,” said the CS. He said patrols in the lake are going to be intensified to tame the runaway insecurity. “We will step up our patrol in terms of investments so that we ensure we support our fishermen in the work they are doing,” said Dr Matiang’i. He ordered Homa Bay County Commissioner Irungu Macharia to facilitate the posting of an assistant chief to Remba Island which is affected by the turbulence pitting Kenyan fishermen and Ugandan security officials. BHANG TRAFFICKING Mr Macharia was also ordered to provide a list of the areas where provincial administration officers have not been posted. He said a new police station will be built at Remba Island to help tame insecurity. According to Dr Matiang’i, the decision by Suba North MP Millie Odhiambo to offer Sh600,000 from the Constituency Development Fund is a boost in the war against insecurity. The Interior CS said new police stations will be built in Rangwe Sub-County and Othoro trading centre in Kabondo Kasipul. Dr Matiang’i expressed concern over the huge quantities of bhang being netted each day in Nyanza. “We cannot allow criminals to spoil our children by trafficking bhang in the area in the name of doing business,” he said. CONFISCATE FIREARMS He warned officials colluding with criminals that their days were numbered. “We have realised the problem of illegal guns in Isebania in Migori County but we are going to confiscate the firearms and stop the bhang trade,” Dr Matiang’i. Rangwe MP Lilian Gogo and Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga promised to support Dr Matiang’i in his efforts to curb insecurity in the region. “As lawmakers from the region, we support your effort to fight insecurity,” said Ms Wanga.  