Handicap 24 golfer Jacob Theuri was in his best form during the weekend as he beat a huge field of over 200 golfers, to clinch the overall title during the London Day golf tournament at the par 72 Ruiru Sports Club. Theuri carded 21 points in the first nine and an impressive 23 at the back nine for the back ninan amazing 44 points. During the high scoring day, James Njagu beat Josphat Mbugua on countback with 41 points to lay claim to the men’s first prize, with George Karuku on 40 points finishing third. Mwangi Mukurui and Edward Wanderi won the first and second nine honours with 21 and 23 points respectively, with Anthony Kamau leading the sponsors list with 39 points as Margaret Maina claimed the ladies guest prize, and the men’s guest winner was Sidney Shilako with 37 points. The ladies first prize went to Margaret Maina, who posted 38 points to win by two points from Irene Wamoro and Lucy Kwendo on 36 points. The club’s leading amateur, Ben Omondi won the longest drive contest for the men and Irene Wamoro took the ladies prize. Shilako and Beatrice Kamau won the nearest to pin prize. This weekend, Ruiru will host the annual Polycap Igathe tournament, At the par 72 Thika Sports Club course, lady golfer Margaret Kariuki posted her best round ever, a brilliant 43 points to claim the overall prize in the Level Handicap golf tournament. She posted 25 points in the first nine and 18 at the back nine to win well ahead of men winner Kabando Muthee. The handicap 27 Muthee carded 19 and 20 for 39 to win by one point from the handicap five Paul Nduati. In the ladies section, Esther Wanjiku on 36 beat Anastasia Karimi by one point to take home the ladies first prize, with Francis Njuguna Thuo on 39 leading the sponsors followed by Maina Ruo on 38. Also posting 39 to lead the guests was A. Kiragu. The nines went to Shanket Shah on 22 and Bill Kariuki who carded 23 points, The longest drive winners were R. Lemingani and Mercy Meru, while Major D. Nganga won the nearest to pin prize. At Sigona Golf Club, veteran golfer Ngige Mondo posted 39 points to claim the popular Ndemi Classic sponsored by African members of Sigona, where James Njeke on 38 was second after beating Pritesh Bhimjiani on countback. Mayur Shah posted 36 points for the fourth though after beating Nishit Shah on countback. Another veteran golfer Naftally Kibuku won the seniors prize with a score of 38 points, winning by three points from former Kenya Golf Union chairman Parshu Hirani. In the sponsors category, Peter Kiguru carded 36, while Mary Wairimu on 33 was the lady winner. Kericho’s Reuben Langat emerged the best guest with 33, beating Robinson Owiti by a point. Haren Patel and R.K. Shah won the nines on 20 points each.  