Several regional and county commissioners have been promoted and others moved in changes announced by Interior PS Karanja Kibicho on Friday. In the changes, Mr Mohamed Birik was promoted and moved from Kirinyaga County and will now become the North Eastern, Regional Commissioner. Former Regional Commissioner for North Eastern Region Mohamud Saleh was moved to the Ministry headquarters as the director of reforms. The regional commissioners now are Wilson Njenga (Central), Mongo Chimwanga (Rift Valley), Ann Ng’etich (Western), Moffat Muriithi (Nyanza), William Thuku (Nairobi), Bernard Leparmarai (Coast), Wycliffe Ogallo (Eastern) and Mr Birik (North Eastern). Mr Samson Ojwang is the new Kirinyaga County Commissioner while Dr Ahmed Omar was moved to Elgeyo Marakwet as the county commissioner. Mr Abdullahi Hiddi takes over in Machakos after Ms Matilda Sakwa was named the National Youth Service Director General. “These changes are geared towards enhancing service delivery to wananchi while at same time improving management of security and coordination of national government functions in the regions and counties,” Interior PS Karanja Kibicho said in a statement. Meanwhile, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet made changes in the police with Douglas Kanja becoming the new General Service Unit commandant. Mr Francis Munyambu, formerly the regional commander Central swaps places with his Rift Valley counterpart Solomon Mutua. Mr Joseph Mbuthia was moved as the Commanding officer- Recce Company to the commandant presidential Escort Unit. The previous head of the Presidential Escort Unit Mohamed Omar Bashane was made the deputy Commandant GSU. Mr James Mwaniki is now the staffing officer, Nairobi while John Njuguna Kamau was transferred from Kisumu County Commander to Kenya Police College, Kiganjo, swapping places with Mr Job Kiprotich Boronjo. Mr John Wachira moved from the Nakuru to be the Administration Police Commissioner headquarters in Central. Mr Weston Mwamba was moved from Murang’a AP headquarters Nakuru, while Mr Samuel Ndanyi was moved from Administration Police Training College in Embakasi to become the County Commander, Kilifi.  