One of the key questions I have faced in recent times has been on the cost of corruption. Engaging a number of those who ask that question reveals the general thinking of the cost of corruption in purely direct monetary terms. Corruption is costly. Former US Vice-President Joe Biden, while speaking to Romanian Civil Society Groups and Students in 2014, captured it aptly: “Corruption is a cancer, a cancer that eats away at a citizen’s faith in democracy, diminishes the instinct for innovation and creativity; already-tight national budgets, crowding out important national investments. It wastes the talent of entire generations. It scares away investments and jobs. And most importantly it denies the people their dignity. It saps the collective strength and resolve of a nation. Corruption is just another form of tyranny.” Kenya has borne the cost of corruption over the years. While no comprehensive studies have been done on the subject, it is generally estimated that at least 30 per cent of resources applied to procurement of goods and services are stolen through corrupt means. This figure is even higher if you factor in waste. INDIRECT TAX Corruption then becomes an indirect tax on Kenyans, who have to meet this cost indirectly. It is important at the outset to be clear that public processes use public resources, and all these have to be paid for by the taxpayer. Taxes are levied directly, such as Pay As You Earn, and indirectly, such as the various taxes and levies on every purchase of a litre of fuel. The effects of corruption, however, go beyond monetary losses. Some of the effects are difficult to quantify in monetary terms. Confidence and sense of belonging of a population is determined in large measure by the presence of sound legal and policy frameworks that work, as well as institutions that ensure the law is developed, enacted and enforced equally to protect as well as uphold the rights of every citizen. Corruption eats into this by undermining the confidence of citizens in their institutions. Every time a citizen goes to seek a service and is forced to pay a bribe, their confidence in that institution is undermined. It is not a surprise that the institutions of the police and the Judiciary suffered serious public confidence crisis. Their failure was one of the key reasons why Kenyans adopted extra-ordinary measures in the constitution of 2010 to try and salvage these institutions, with mixed success. SECURITY UNDERMINED Institutions are destroyed by both petty and grand corruption. Petty corruption operates like termites that slowly gnaw on a tree until it falls, irrespective of how big. It simply destroys institutional culture of accountability and responsibility by distorting merit, order and discipline. Petty corruption when its fully grown begets grand corruption. Grand corruption, on the other hand, gets the job done pretty quickly. When the quality of security communication equipment is compromised, for instance, the impact on the ability of servicemen to communicate is immediately undermined and so is security of a nation. The impact is also more dramatic if criminal elements take advantage of the loopholes created to further criminal activities. Corruption undermines democracy, governance and human rights by weakening State institutions that are the basis for fair and equitable societies. Corruption crowds out service delivery. The provision of services, especially, the basic ones, to every citizen is the core responsibility of the government. Government would provide more and better services if resources are available. It would be the same if the available resources were utilised optimally and prudently in service delivery. A 30 per cent cost to corruption means 30 per cent worth in less services in terms of number and quality. PUBLIC SERVICES Better stewardship of resources would make it better for the government to provide basic services such as education, water, health and housing in a subsidised or affordable manner. Social security would, therefore, be enhanced. When officials are corrupt, this represents a major hindrance to a government’s ability to meet the basic needs of its citizens. The sectors that would constitute basic service provision in Kenya have suffered multiple scandals in recent years. In some cases, to get quality service, one has to pay a premium cost, making these a preserve of the rich. The poor are most vulnerable to corruption and its effects. While the rich and the middle class can buy ‘private’ services where the ‘public’ services fail, the poor have no choice and often have to pay a disproportionately higher cost than the former. In the research “Impact of corruption on growth and inequality”, Transparency International points out how corruption has a corrosive impact on growth and business operations, how it affects inequality and income distribution and its effects on the overall governance and business structure. RESOURCE DISTRIBUTION Not only does corruption affect economic development in terms of efficiency and growth, it also affects equitable distribution of resources across the population, increasing income inequalities, undermining the effectiveness of social welfare programmes and ultimately resulting in lower levels of human development. Simply put, corruption is inimical to sustainable business. It distorts the market, makes a mockery of quality and standards and makes merit irrelevant. Businesses find it increasingly difficult to invest in countries and territories with endemic corruption. There are other social effects of corruption. When jobs are given not on merit but through nepotism or other corrupt basis or influence, opportunities are denied. The poor, women, minorities and the marginalised suffer most from the effects. Women suffer further effects of sexual exploitation. For them, corruption means even less access to jobs. Additionally, corruption discourages foreign investment, leading to fewer employment opportunities. Political corruption destroys the very basis of democracy and democratic institutions. A clear co-relation exists between the money spend in campaigns and electioneering. Money has a distortionary effect on electoral processes. Illicit money has an even greater deleterious effect. In endemically corrupt societies, a symbiotic relationship exists between corruption and politics. LEGAL FICTIONS Political power is pursued largely because of the access it gives to loot public resources. Once in power, the looted resources are used to retain power and to fund subsequent elections and buy political loyalty. Corrupt exercise of political power often leads to destruction of checks and balances and institutions, paving the way for state capture and the control of the state by criminal cartels whose sole allegiance is to their insatiable greed. By the time a state is captured, its democratic processes have been destroyed. States are legal fictions created as vehicles to help in the realisation of the common aspirations of its people. When the instruments of the State are captured by those interested solely in the primitive accumulation of wealth, the State itself cannot survive for long. It is for this reason that Kenyans must act in concert to prevent the destruction of this vehicle for the realisation of our common good by corruption. Mr Kimeu is the executive director of Transparency International Kenya; skimeu@tikenya.org  