Outspoken politicians in Tiaty, Baringo County, say they live in fear of being killed for speaking against “ills meted on the Pokot”. Some have been arrested before and prosecuted for incitement. The latest to be abducted lived to tell the tale. Silale Ward Representative Nelson Lotela was found in Nakuru on Monday after missing for more than 10 hours. Seven MPs  from West Pokot County on Tuesday gave Inspector-General of police Joseph Boinnet a week to arrest those who abducted Mr Lotela. During a press briefing at Parliament buildings, Mr Samuel Moroto (Kapenguria), Ms Lilian Tomoitin (Woman Rep), Mr David Pkosing (Pokot South), Mr Mark Lomunokol (Kacheliba), Mr Perter Lochakapong and Mr Kamket said if the deadline passes, they will call for a rally and make their stand known “on how to defend our community”. INSECURITY Senator Samuel Pogishio said the leaders “will no longer sit as insecurity grows worse in our county”. The MPs said despite giving police all the information, including the registration number of the car the MCA was bundled in, no one has been arrested. The MCA has, on many occasions, accused the government of failing to tame cattle rustling in Baringo. During a recent peace run organised by Governor Stanley Kiptis’ wife Ivy in Loruk, Mr Lotela said the county security team is doing little to address the situation. “I have given the county commissioner names of suspected rustlers but none has been arrested,” he said. SUMMONED He has on many occasions been summoned by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations over insecurity. In May 2017, Churo/Amaya MCA Thomas Minito disappeared. His body was retrieved from Oldonyo Sabuk River, Machakos County four days later. Mr Minito was reportedly approached by three people at a Kabarnet hotel. Before his disappearance, the MCA had appeared in a Nyahururu court to answer assault charges. ABDUCTIONS On Tuesday, Tiaty MP William Kamket blamed police officers for the abductions. “The guns the abductors were carrying were similar to those used by the Recce squad,” he said. Baringo County Commissioner Henry Wafula said investigations into the abduction of the MCA have been launched. Additional reporting by Samwel Owino   Silale Ward Rep said to have been bundled into car by three men.