When we hear the word missionary, most of us associate that with foreigners handing out Bibles and teaching about the Word of God. Missionaries do not have to be foreigners. They are normal ordinary people trying to do the extraordinary. *Jane is a missionary, born and brought up in Kenya, and this is her story. Why did you decide to do mission work? It was more of following the heart than deciding. When I was younger, I always found myself taking part in mission trips and being with people who were passionate about knowing God. I really wanted to share about God with others. Have you ever found a great deal and you just thought, "I can't keep this to myself?" Yep, that was me. Initially, it had been something I thought I'd do for a year and be grounded to be a light wherever I went, but it is now four years and I'm still here. What were the reactions of your friends and family when you told them this is what you wanted to do? My friends were actually very supportive and that was encouraging. My family had mixed reactions. Being a Christian family, my parents were happy that I was doing something that glorified God. My dad often said: "No matter what you do, God first!" My mum told me: "As long as you know it’s God calling you we can't dispute that!" It was both sobering and affirming to hear that. On the other side, I realised that they were concerned for me, especially financially. I had just completed campus and the next step was getting a job that pays well. Mission work did not sound like something that paid well, and this worried them. My siblings were trying to crack what exactly I do with my time. Thank God family accepts us no matter what. They have been very supportive.  What preparation does one need before taking on this path? The organisation I joined, and many others I know, has in-house arrangements for one to train before being fully absorbed as a full-time missionary. This gives one time to grow personally in their walk with God and also experience mission work. After that they can get clarity on whether they feel God is guiding them to be full-time missionaries. It took me three years to complete my training.  Do you remember your first posting? Yes, I do. It was in my former campus, so there wasn't much to adjust to except dropping the student identity and embracing the new role. It made it easy to relate to students since I was "fresh" from campus. People had mentored me when I was in campus. They studied the Bible with me and walked with me through campus. They had taught me what a real Christ-like life ought to be, and I was eager to do the same with others.  What are some of the challenges of being a missionary? What are the joys? Sometimes it’s really hard to quantify what you're doing, because it's not every day that there's a 'great story' humanly speaking. Many days are filled with ordinary moments and it is tempting to seek reports like "100 people got saved when I preached to them!". Learning to seek what God applauds and not what man applauds is a challenge. We focus more on discipleship -- reaching people one by one and studying the Bible with them in small groups. That can take time, sometimes even years of planning, strategising and reaching out, before you see the results. Christian work in reality is all about Christ and keeping that as the focus can be difficult at times. It is God who transforms people. The greatest joy is seeing people sincerely coming to God, growing in Him, being transformed by His word and finding joy in the Christian community. It's the little things like someone who didn't like reading their Bible starting to read; someone learning that God's love is a guideline for all other relationships, especially romantic relationships among students; someone becoming a dear friend and not just a 'project'. It is refreshing and uplifting when God answers these prayers in the mission field.  What common misconceptions are held about this type of work? 1. That relationships are always smooth --. I've learned that we are all a work in progress and even the best of Christians are human, they err. 2. That you have to be really poor to be a good missionary -- I've not been here too long, but it's so encouraging when I see God providing abundantly for missionaries and their families; meeting their needs. Missionaries also have dreams of owning their own homes, educating their children and having a retirement plan. It may not always come in the conventional way, but God does meet these needs as they seek first His kingdom. There are days when need reminds us contentment and that Christ is our greatest reward, and there are days when abundance reminds us He owns the cattle on a thousand hills. 3. That mission work is for a chosen few -- Maybe not everyone can do it full-time, but what we do can be done by anyone who has a vibrant relationship with God, whether at the office, in the neighbourhood or in a mission field.  Can you still have a career and do mission work? Yes. In our organisation, we say we have full-time missionaries and conventional income missionaries. Some give part of their time while others give all their time.  How do you personally tackle the conversation around money, especially since you have to ask for support from people? This used to be stressful for me because it felt like I was asking people to give to me. It made money conversations so awkward. But I learned to depend on God for provision and I felt very liberated. My focus shifted from people to God. He provides all my needs whether through people or through His own means. I don't invite people to support me as an individual. I invite them to be part of God's work, and I always pray that they will give unto God and not to me. That way, however they respond, I feel free that it was a response between them and God and it helps to preserve the relationship. It also helps when I am a good steward of the money given. I believe that God has given me all I have, and He is the one I must give an account to.  How do you deal with rejection, from those who you are trying to minister to?It can be painful when someone says no or relationships turn sour. However, I think that they reject the message I'm carrying and the Christ I'm preaching and not me as an individual. That gives great comfort.  What keeps you going? The Bible. As sure as night comes after day, when I am in the word, my mind and heart are always at the right place -- humble, dependent on God, prayerful, seeing fruit. When I stay away too long, then my focus shifts. John 15:5 says: “I am the vine; you are the branches. If you remain in me and I in you, you will bear much fruit; apart from you can do nothing." (NIV version) God is the one who calls and also sustains. I stumble my way through sometimes, but I aspire to keep in touch with Him and finally to hear Him call me a good and faithful servant. Also, a great team of like-minded people and supporters is a big boost.  *Name withheld to protect privacy.   Without prayer, you’re no longer listening to God.