Hulda Adhiambo Serro is a singer, songwriter and performer, out to tell the African story through her Benga and jazz-infused Afropop sound. Her influencers include Dela, Yemi Alade, Sauti Sol and Winyo, as well as traditional Kenyan folk sounds. She is known for her hit song, Rongai, and released a new single Okello, in May.  1. What was the idea behind Rongai? Rongai is a song that just came to me one day as I was doing some cleaning. I started singing the chorus and I thought it sounded nice. I therefore decided to explore that idea and write a story about a lady who is being lied to yet she knows about it. It wasn’t a personal experience like many people think.  2. What are we to expect next from you, in terms of an album, or songs, or performances? After the release of Rongai, it took me quite a while before releasing any music officially. I don’t plan on waiting that long again, so I’ve been working hard at the studio. I plan to release another single before the end of the year as I keep working on my EP (a compilation of more than one track but not yet a complete album) which will be released as soon as it is ready. The stage has to be one of my favourite places on earth and my fans should just check out my social media pages to keep up with my next stage performance.  3.Why do you think that it is hard for people to understand that a Christian can sing secular music? What is your philosophy on that? I truly believe that as Christians, we are always quick to judge and we try so hard in wanting other people to see how perfect we are or how ‘more Christian’ we are, than so and so. I also think that we underestimate our God and try to place Him in a box but we forget that He works with, and calls people in very different ways. I have gotten that question multiple times; why I sing secular music yet I am a Christian. My response to this will always be the same. Everyone is convicted differently and everyone has a different journey. We should allow for people to go through their own individual journey of faith and of self-discovery, and we should let God guide every person through their individual journey. We should also remember that just because someone is not necessarily singing gospel music professionally does not mean that this person’s heart is not in the right place faith wise, and the vice versa is also true.  4. Whose music do you enjoy locally? And who would you most like to collaborate with? I really like Sautisol, Eunice Njeri, Fadhilee Itulya, Guardian Angel, Alice Kimanzi, Ayrosh, Bensoul, Kaskazini and I feel like I can’t even conclude this list because I enjoy so many local artists. If I was to collaborate with any of these artists today, it would be Bensoul, Guardian Angel and Ayrosh.  5. When you're not singing your socks off, what do you like to do in your spare time? I really like watching movies (especially those that will get tears in my eyes) and I’m trying to read more.   Adam is a creative consultant in the entertainment industry.