Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi has maintained he will vie for the presidency in the 2022 general election. Mr Mudavadi, speaking at Kiriaini Catholic Church in Mathioya Constituency during the burial of Sasini Tea MD Stephen Githiga's father Luka Macharia, said he will not demand support from electorates but will only present his agenda. "I have campaigned in this region in 2013 and in 2017 when I was seeking votes for Raila Odinga; but I will be in the ballot in 2022 and I will also make inroads in this place when that time comes. "But I will not be here to demand that you repay the debt like what some quotas will do, but I will sell my manifesto to you the way all other potential presidents should do," Mr Mudavadi said on Saturday. POLITICAL DEBT The ANC is part of Nasa, alongside Wiper (Kalonzo Musyoka) and Ford Kenya (Moses Wetang'ula) whose leaders have publicly expressed their interest in the senior most position; ODM is also a member under the leadership of Raila Odinga. Deputy President William Ruto also wants the top seat, and is depending on President Uhuru Kenyatta's good will after he supported his quest in the 2013 and 2017 elections. Some Mt Kenya region artistes have composed songs showing their support for Mr Ruto's 2022 bid. For example, Benga musician John D Mathew has released "Niko na deni (I'm indebted to you)" while Kimani Wa Turacco has released "Hatuna deni (we do not owe you)". CORRUPTION Mr Mudavadi urged President Kenyatta to fearlessly go after corrupt individuals. "The only legacy the Head of State can leave in this country after the expiry of his term is to eradicate corruption, and to effectively do so he must target the head and not the tail to completely wipe out the vice," he said. His sentiments were backed by Othaya MP Gichuki Mugambi who commended the President's directive suspending new projects until the old ones are completed. Other leaders who attended the event were Mathioya MP Peter Kimari, former Lamu Governor Issa Timamy, his former Deputy Governor Eric Mugo and Former Equity Bank Chairman Peter Munga among others.   They appended their signatures to a new accord in which they agreed to walk the same political path.