Ng’iya Girls High School in Siaya County has been closed indefinitely after the students went on rampage and destroyed property. The students were sent home on Tuesday morning following a decision by the school’s board of management. The school board chairperson Margaret Nandi said the girls sent home until further notice as investigations into the cause of their protest began. UNREST Ms Nandi did not give much information on what led to the unrest but she termed them “usual reasons”. The school’s principal Florence Okut refused to comment on the incident. Nyanza Education coordinator Richard Chepkwai told Nation his team is on the ground to assess the level of damage at the school and the cause of the strike. On Monday, Kisumu Girls High School was also closed indefinitely after students went on rampage and destroyed property. The students accused the school principal of high-handedness. ROWDY Kisumu County Director of Education Sabina Aroni ordered the school closure on Monday, saying the students had become rowdy. "From what we gathered the girls' complaints touched on entertainment and freedom of worship," Ms Aroni said. The students vandalised the school dining hall and a computer laboratory during the Sunday night strike. Kisumu County Kuppet Executive Secretary Zablon Awange said the Ministry of Education must carry out thorough and urgent investigations over the twin incidences. “As Kuppet Kisumu we also demand the Education Act 2010 which gave students much freedom be reviewed because it was the genesis of numerous strikes, fires and lies by students.” “The government must also promptly release results of investigations and task force beginning with recent case of DNA tests on Moi Nairobi Girls teachers,” Mr Awange said. He went on: “Legal action should be taken against students who lead strike or lie against teachers on corporal punishment or sexual relations. Teachers are besieged and attention is on them rather than students. Unless this stops it will be hard to stop the strikes.”   Students went on rampage destroying school property.