On June 14, President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered that all public officers, including himself, undergo a lifestyle audit. That followed an earlier directive on Madaraka Day for heads of public procurement and accounts to step aside pending fresh vetting to justify their continued retention. This seemingly innocuous announcement drew mixed reactions. Some people were quick to invoke the Constitution on the right to privacy. Most vocal, however, were politicians who read political mischief in it. But those opposed to the order are missing the point. As some commentators have rightly articulated, a lifestyle audit is simply a formal determination of whether the lifestyle of a person is commensurate with their income stream. That would entail declaration of one’s income, assets and liability for forensic assessment. FORENSIC INVESTIGATION Essentially, it is a probity tool used in forensic investigation — including vetting – in relation to corruption, serious fraud and the whole range of economic crimes to establish the so-called ‘net worthiness’ of a person, particularly an employee, to prove or even dispel allegations of involvement in such crimes. It is, as well, a critical element in standard investigation methods to effectively meet, say, the obligations of international instruments such as the United Nations Convention against Corruption and respective domestic laws, including the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act and the Public Officer Ethics Act. Also, purely as a universally accepted and adopted good practice method of intelligence-led investigations, lifestyle audits do not require specific legal framework to be undertaken; it is not correct to claim as such. WEALTH DECLARATIONS Lest it be missed, the President’s order targets civil servants and not, at least for now, the private sector. In fact, under the ethics law, public officers are expected to file wealth declarations in December of every second year. But the reports remain confidential unless there is a legitimate interest to access them. Consequently, the big question has, invariably, been how to ascertain the veracity of what is declared, especially in regard to corruptly acquitted assets, without a specific complaint. Nevertheless, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission can investigate any conduct conducive to corruption or economic crime with an unexplained asset as evidence. Ideally, a lifestyle audit is one aspect of investigating such allegations and a tool of enforcing ethical governance and integrity mainstreaming public service delivery. But isn’t it possible to expose individuals with corrupt tendencies to discourage their engagement in corrupt schemes? It can be done through integrity testing, an effective tool of taming corruption and unethical conduct. INTEGRITY TESTING Integrity testing is grounded on the premise that, although majority of public officers are generally ethical in their conduct, the baggage of misconduct and unethical behaviour is shouldered by a minority — who should be identified for appropriate action — especially those in areas susceptible to corruption or in positions of influence. Indeed, as Terrence M. Booysen observes in Lifestyle Audits Curb Errant Behaviour, “the more senior an individual is within an organisation (read government) and who have fraudulent tendencies, the greater the size of the fraud”. In brief, it is a proactive method of robustly dealing with corruption, malpractice and misconduct in office. Integrity tests are hailed in the United Nations Handbook on Practical Anti-Corruption Measures for Prosecutors and Investigators as “one of the most effective tools for identifying and eradicating corrupt practices in government services within a short period of time”. NEW DISPENSATION When then-permanent secretaries and other heads in government gathered at the Kenya School of Government in February 2010 for a presentation on ‘Status of Corruption in Kenya and Mechanisms for Combating it’, integrity testing featured prominently and was unanimously adopted the programme to be rolled out in the public service. Fresh impetus should be injected into the programme in the new dispensation. These two investigation tools could absolve suspects from malicious allegations, hence the innocent have nothing to fear from them. In contrast, right to privacy per se cannot absolve one from criminal culpability. WAR ON CORRUPTION The popular lamentation over time has been lack of political goodwill in the fight against corruption rather than the weaknesses in the obtaining legal framework or the capacity of the investigative and prosecutorial organs. However, with the President’s demonstrated resoluteness to lead the war on corruption by revamping and empowering those organs, there is hope that winning the fight is nigh. It’s now or never to slay the ‘dragon’ of corruption. Mr Mwangi is a law enforcement and security management consultant.  