I often get fascinated by sights and sounds, and culture and traditions. And this is what caught my eye when I read books on the history of the Akamba. A long time ago, Akamba ancestors trudged past kĩĩma kyeũ (the white mountain i.e. Mt Kilimanjaro) heading north. They left their kin, the Nyamwezi, whom they regarded as mũtani (one family), writes S. Nzioki in his book Akamba People. Through thick forests and thorny bushes, across waters, over hills and valleys, the families trekked. One day they arrived in Taita Hills. Oral tradition says that a terrible famine broke out and the families wandered about the scrubland searching for ng’amba (nourishing baobab fruits) to stay alive. The origin of the word ‘kamba’ was hamba, which means to travel or wander about. However, hamba does not exist in the Kikamba language but can be traced in other Bantu languages, as seen in K.G. Lindblom’s 1926 Notes on Kamba Grammar. As families spread across Tsavo scrubland, the Ngulia family settled in Tsavo Park West. Other families advanced northwards to Kikumbulyu, a ‘land of no man’. From Taita Hills, some families gazed east and destiny took them to Itandi, the present-day Makueni. Others perched on the lush Mbooni Hills, while others travelled further east and settled in Kitui, according to S. Nzioki. Families grew into clans and eventually the Akamba ethnic group.    But, it is not only the Akamba history that fascinates me, but their culture and oral tradition, which I found intriguing during a recent sojourn. The Akamba, like many other African communities, have a rich culture and captivating proverbs and stories. Mary Kithia Mulatya’s 2013 study Comprehension of Kikamba Proverbs corroborate the oral traditions I came across as I toured the vast Ukambani. PROVERBS In my recent sojourn, I met Kamene wa Kititũ, a granny from the Amuti Clan of the Akamba, in Kaungũni Village beneath Kyulu Hills in Makueni County. Were it not for lines on the face, you would think she is no more than 50 years old, given her sharp mind and easy motion. But she is 90 and she was excited to share her knowledge with me. As we talked, she excitedly shared insights into the Akamba oral tradition. Little did she know that I, too, was intrigued and could not pass up the opportunity to learn from an elder. So I sat with her outside her house, eager to learn. Kamene remembers a time of great famine when she was a young girl; and the Mbui Nzau scrubland was barren and animals died. A sad time it was. But after a few minutes, she starts talking about Akamba oral tradition, and with the help of translator Erick Kitheka from the Writers Guild Kenya, she spits out proverb after proverb, riddles and brain teasers. And she is kind enough to interpret them for us. They were verified by Elizabeth Kyalo from Machakos County Government Culture Department. Here are some of the proverbs I learnt from Kamene:  Mũkwato wa ngitĩ ũthelaa ĩĩ nga yekalĩla ĩĩ kyaa yo. Translation: The heat of a dog stops when the female sits on its genitals. Meaning: Every party has its climax. One should enjoy life with care.  Tene ĩni tene. Translation: Early is early. Meaning: The earlier the better.  Mbũi Nzau yia yienekee. Translation: A white goat gets lost while it’s still in sight. Meaning: A good deed gets lost if it does not get sufficient attention.  Mũsemba weka asya nowe wĩ maaũ. Translation: A lone runner may lie to himself that he's the fastest runner.  Mbaa Ngeka meethiwe Mataneka. Translation: The clan of ‘we shall do’ do nothing. Meaning: It discourages procrastination.  Ũ wĩ kivetanĩ ndũthekaa ũla wĩ iko. Translation: The one on the woodpile does not laugh at the one in the fire. Meaning: Don't laugh at another when they are experiencing something as you could be next.  Ngũli syonthe iyĩanĩa mũsoanĩ. Translation: All the monkeys cannot hang on one branch. Meaning: People are unique.  Mwĩĩtu wa vaasa asũnga asiatwe sua. Translation: A girl in a far land dances looking at the sun. Meaning: Be cautious in a strange land.  Ngaeka mwaeka. Translation: I shall stop when you stop. Meaning: A leader should lead by example.  Kasele katune katunĩvaswa nĩ kũnenganilwa. Translation: A red gourd is reddened by passing hands. Meaning: Be generous and share.   Mũeni aeee mbaki mbĩu. Translation: A visitor has the most ripened tobacco. Meaning: It is always good to welcome visitors and seek advice from them.  Iitho yi ĩtonyeka yambiĩiaakuĩiatene. Translation: An eye that will get damaged weeps nervously. Meaning: Intentions are difficult to disguise.  RIDDLES The Akamba also used riddles and brain teasers to test younger people and sharpen their wits, and keep them awake as they waited for dinner, Kamene says. She then poses a few riddles to us:  Mũsumbĩ uthataa kwatuka. Which king gets aggressive when in the dark? Answer: Jigger  Kasuni kaiũ kiimani. A black bird on a hill Answer: Ni musele (Rice chaff)  Mũui Mũseo akilitye inyaaku kũua. Cooks better than your mother Answer: Ni nzũki (it is a bee)  I am sure these proverbs and riddles don't represent even half of what the community has to offer. And I am sad that my sojourn was too short to explore more. But to quench my thirst, my journey to learn more continues. And I will definitely go back for more than a dose of the oral tradition -- next time, I will want more.   In a recent sojourn, I met Kamene wa Kititũ who enthralled me with her knowledge.