When Becky Sangolo and Carol Kamweru met while in music school at the Sauti Academy, they quickly connected. They later sang a duet and as fate would have it, the two joined forces to become one of the top female music groups in the country. Together, they formed the group Band BeCa in 2016 through which they released their first single “Toka”, a club song that saw them become instant superstars. Other songs that they have also released are “Brathe” and “Tonight”. While appearing on the Lit 360 show that airs every Thursday at 10pm on NTV, the band shared their ups and downs in the music industry, but one point that they stressed was that they were here to stay. “We have come from far and we are not stopping anytime soon. The first question that a lot of people ask us is when are we are breaking up as a band because as history has it, most members of music groups always part ways to pursue separate careers. But for us, it works better when we are together,” said Kamweru. She added: “In fact, I feel that it is much easier for us as a group in this tough industry. We both have our different strengths that in the end play a major role in ensuring the success of the band. So this works for us.” In the 90s, music groups were a huge deal. We had groups like the Kleptomaniacs, Wakimbizi, girl group Tattuu, Uko Flani Mau Mau, Kalamashaka, Maroon Commandos and Them Mushrooms who ruled the airwaves. But for one reason or the other, the groups no longer produce music. And it is for this reason they say that they want to show that music groups do work. She said ever since they came out as a band, they have received numerous inquiries from fans that want advice, or just want to learn more from them on how they can also be able to make it in the entertainment industry as a group. “I want to assure people that music pays, although it takes a lot of hard work, patience and determination. But when your time comes it will happen, because even for us it was a struggle at the beginning,” said Kamweru. She added that one of the major problems in the industry was unequal opportunities for both male and female artistes, with corporates favouring the later. "For most events, one can be able to predict the lineup of artistes that will be performing because they use the same kind of people or get more male artistes than female. I think it is just fair for them to consider other people because we have new and talented artistes coming out every day and they need platforms like these so that they can gain popularity,” she said.   Boy band Sauti Sol, rapper Nyashinski, singer Atemi and Della are among the few new age music artistes who are setting the pace.