Anglican Archbishop Jackson ole Sapit has urged politicians to stop meddling in the Mau Forest evictions. He said the water tower is the source of several rivers, and its protection should not be politicised. “The preservation of Mau Forest should not be politicised. We are seeing politicians from certain communities politicising the issue for their own gain. They should remember that at the top of Mau is the main swamp that distributes water to other rivers,” he said. “The environment is groaning because people have destroyed it. We urge the President not to relent in the preservation of Mau Forest and other water catchment areas across the country,” he added. Archbishop Sapit, who hails from Narok, where some rivers whose source is the Mau Forest Complex, said they were beginning to dry up due to uncontrolled human activity. DISRUPTED RAINFALL PATTERN He spoke at the Saint Stephens Cathedral in Kisumu when he presided over a service for the retired Bishop of Maseno South Diocese Right Rev Francis Mwayi Abiero. “All these rivers spring from Mau. If we don’t preserve the water tower, the rainfall pattern will be disrupted and the tea sector in Kericho will be affected,” he added. He called on Kenyans to prioritise protection of forests and rivers, as well as addressing pollution. At the same time, the Anglican head said key players in the education sector should urgently address issues fuelling unrest in schools to avoid disrupting learning as student prepare to sit national exams next term. The rivers under threat are Molo, Njoro, Ndarogo and Narok. He urged the churches, parents, teachers and the government to involved in promoting a conducive learning environment in schools. EMOTIVE EVICTIONS “Human beings, animals and crops interrelate. If we destroy one aspect of the created order, especially of the natural environment, we are destroying ourselves. Without nature, we will not have a future,” said Archbishop ole Sapit. He did not directly refer to the emotive evictions of families by the administration officials, which has sparked an outcry for MPs who are allies of Deputy President William Ruto. “We should avoid the blame games and begin to ask ourselves as to what is wrong in our schools. As a church, we felt we have been pushed out of the school system and the management of schools,” said Archbishop Ole Sapit. He urged the government to set a robust chaplaincy in schools to provide a strong foundation for counselling to enhance discipline among students. ELECTIONS “What we see is degradation of the values system in our nation. Therefore, we want pay a lot of attention to the schools we have to avoid the unrest and burning of property,” said Mr Sapit. Bishop Mwayi Abiero has retired after attaining the age of 65 years. He has served as the bishop since 1994. The Maseno South Diocese elect the next bishop in August.   Party says eviction of people living in Mau Forest will go on despite protests from politicians.