The arrest of former Kenya Power boss Ben Chumo and senior managers of the company has drawn mixed reactions from the public, with the scandal’s whistle-blower accusing the graft suspects of arrogance. Lawyer Apollo Mboya who has been calling for the arrest and prosecution of top Kenya Power officials said they ignored his advice to enter a plea bargain to escape arrest. On Saturday, the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji ordered for the arrest of current and former senior managers over procurement of defective transformers and the irregularities in prequalifying 525 companies for labour and transport contracts. “I told the gang to plea bargain early for their sins against the people of Kenya but they arrogantly went on catwalk with [National Assembly] Energy Committee and [even spoke at a magistrates meeting],” Mr Mboya tweeted. He was referring to Kenya Power senior officials who last month addressed a magistrates meeting in Naivasha on the need to expedite cases related to vandalism of Kenya Power equipment. According to Mr Mboya, the second phase of the purge would be on inflated bills. Mr Dennis Onyango, opposition leader Raila Odinga’s spokesman, said it’s a pity Kenyans put the management of electricity to people who cannot be trusted. Senior Counsel Ahmednasir Abdullahi and activist Benji Ndolo also wondered how Mr Chumo was nominated as chairperson of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) while under investigation on corruption-related deals. “I thought HE Uhuru nominated this man to head the Public Service Commission? No vetting...no background check-ups...no nothing!” Mr Abdullahi said in a tweet. Mr Ndolo claimed some advisers could be misleading the president on appointments. “Ben Chumo under arrest for economic crimes while nominated for SRC boss position by the President. Surely who is advising [President Uhuru Kenyatta]?” asked Mr Ndolo. Professor Edward Kisiang'ani‏, a political analyst and a lecturer, lauded the government’s war on corruption. “….escalate the war on corruption. Don't just look forward only. Also look backwards and sideways. Our country is rotten with graft. Go!,” he said.   Company in bid to sweep questions on faulty transformers under the carpet