Schools in Nakuru which do not have buses have a reason to smile after the county government launched two courtesy buses to ease transportation in the institutions. According to Governor Lee Kinyanjui, the buses will be used by the institutions to avoid the worry of “owning a school bus”. Governor Kinyanjui launched the ambitious project on Wednesday, the first of its kind in the 47 counties, at the county headquarters. The governor said that the project will help especially public schools which do not have proper facilities to utilise their funds to improve them rather than focusing on purchasing buses. RESOURCES STRAINED According to him, many schools are straining their financial capabilities to buy buses at the expense of other crucial facilities which is affecting academic performance. “I want institutions and even members of the public to use funds for more urgent needs and let us provide transport when it is needed. This a great way to live as a community,” the governor said. The governor further said that he is working towards making sure that the county has the best infrastructure as it focuses on attaining a city status. “When Nakuru is named a city, I want us to actually have the infrastructure and development worthy of the status,” the governor added. INCREASED REVENUE The county boss revealed that his administration was able to purchase the buses after an increase of revenue collection of over Sh300 million. Residents welcomed the project terming it a “much awaited one”. Ms Mary Mbula said that she was happy about the project as it will shoulder the financial burden that falls on parents when schools want to purchase buses. “With these courtesy buses the schools can concentrate on other things. This makes me as a parent very happy,” Ms Mbula said. “The buses will also reduce the budget allocated to travel expenses for county leaders which is my main concern because the tax burdens fall on us tax payers,” Ms Mbula noted. The governor said the buses are also available for use by all Nakuru residents.  