Oh my, Oymyakon cold reads -62 degrees ***** Nairobi is pretty cold now, with the temperature ranging between 16 degrees Celsius and 18 degrees Celsius. But that is nothing compared to the weather in Oymyakon, a rural village in Omyakonski district in Russia which is regarded as one of the coldest permanently inhabited places on earth. On January 16, the temperature in the village reached near-record lows, so much so that the digital thermometers installed in the village last year to appeal to tourists broke as a result. As temperatures went down to -62 degrees Celsius, the thermometer broke down ‘because it was too cold.’ Wounded stars are tricky to interview ***** Covering the World Cup is quite an experience. Inside the stadium, you get a front-row view of some of the big stars you would otherwise only watch on television. But that comes as a package which includes sourcing for stories from coaches and players. A big name also comes with an ego the size of Kasarani Stadium, and getting a story from the big stars is a story in itself. Some players have been leaving the pitch after matches to find journalists waiting in the mixed zone for flash interviews, only to shove away the cameras, microphones and video cameras. Two Nigerian fans stranded in Moscow ***** The World Cup has turned into a bitter experience for two Nigerian fans who have been taken for a ride by a Nigeria-based travel agency. The two Nigerian football fans bought into a travel package for the World Cup to watch some of the group stage matches held at Spartak Stadium and Luzhniki Stadium in Moscow as well as the knock-out stage matches. The package included a return ticket to Russia and accommodation for 20 days in Moscow. After the knock-out stage matches ended in Moscow on Tuesday, the fans realized the agency had bought them one way air tickets! Moscow lifts have no ‘ground floor’ ***** Days ago, a small matter caught my attention as I entered the lifts at Luzhniki Stadium and got off on the sixth floor to watch the first match of the tournament between Russia and Saudi Arabia. After the match, I used the same lift to get to ground floor, but there was no button marked ‘ground floor’ inside the lift. With small beads of sweat now starting to form on my forehead, quick thinking saved me. I decided I would get off on first floor, and use the stairs to ground floor. Upon getting off on the floor marked ‘first floor’, I realized I was already on the ground floor.  