It’s that time of the year again when the Kenyan football scene comes to standstill as eternal rivals AFC Leopards and Gor Mahia clash in the SportPesa Premier League.All roads will Sunday afternoon lead to the 60,000-seater Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani for the first leg fixture pitting Leopards against their nemesis Gor Mahia which kicks off at 3pm. Although Gor’s dominance in the local scene over the last five seasons means they go into this match as massive favourites, having won three and lost once in their last five meetings, the match promises to be a cracker. Since the very first Mashemeji Derby was played on May 5, 1968 at the Nairobi City Stadium, when Gor Mahia were about 40 days old, it has never been business as usual when the two giants cross paths. With the usual bragging rights and three points at stake, the match – which will be the 84th meeting between the two arch-rivals - has all the ingredients for an epic clash. K’Ogalo are also aware that victory will open a 12-point gap of second-placed Sofapaka at the helm with three games in hand. Gor had the perfect preparation for this tie after their 4-0 rout of Young Africans SC (Yanga) of Tanzania in their Caf Confederation Cup Group D match on Wednesday at Kasarani, while Leopards settled for a barren draw in their last league assignment against Bandari. GOR CONFIDENT Perched at the summit of the league standings for the better part of the season with no loss from 19 matches and a nine-point cushion from their closest challengers, one understands Gor Mahia captain Harun Shakava’s confidence going into this tie. “All matches are tough, be it against Leopards or any other team in the league. We head into the match aiming to win because we know how positive such a result in the derby can be to our ambitions,” said Shakava. Gor coach Dylan Kerr shares his skipper’s sentiments. “It’s difficult for me to pick players because of the immense squad I have. We can only be consistent by winning,” said the Englishman, who has only lost four times in all competitions since taking over a year ago. “This is a big game for Kenyan football that everyone will be keeping a keen eye on, at Gor Mahia, we always play to win.” The derby was initially scheduled for May 26 at Bukhungu Stadium but was postponed to pave way for Harambee Stars’ friendly matches against Swaziland and Equatorial Guinea. Leopards last victory over Gor was a 1-0 win in March 2016 at the same venue, courtesy of Lamine Diallo’s strike late in the second half, the goal that broke Gor’s 35-match unbeaten streak under the then coach Frank Nuttall. KAMURA, OTIENO OUT The two teams battled to a 1-1 draw August last year at Nyayo Stadium in their last meeting. Leopards go into this match without suspended skipper Duncan Otieno and injured duo Robinson Kamura and Brian Marita while Kerr is set to recall defender Joash Onyango who missed the win over Yanga through suspension. In Otieno's absence, Leopards coach Rodolfo Zapata has handed striker Ezekiel Odera, a former Gor Mahia player, the armband. Zapata, who will be taking charge of his first league match against K'Ogalo, is wary of the threat posed by Gor. “It will be a battle of the midfield, if we control it well we shall win. Everyone wants to win the derby but for me the most important aspect is how, we’ve to play good football and create more chances,” the Argentine said, who oversaw their 1-0 loss to their nemesis in the Hull City Challenge back in May. “We’ve a short term goal to win the game because we still have a chance to win the league as well.” Leopards’ back line led by Salim Abdallah and Mike Kibwage must be wary of Gor’s striking duo, Rwandan Jacques Tuyisenge and Ivorian Ephrem Guikan who have scored a combined 17 league goals. Leopards defence has soaked in 27 goals so far this season compared to Gor's 15. Kerr is likely to start Shaban Odhoji between the sticks with Humphrey Mieno and Francis Kahata partnering in central midfield while George “Blackberry” Odhiambo - who returns after missing two games with injury - and Innocent Wafula operate on the flanks. Probable line-ups: AFC Leopards: Ezekiel Owade (GK), Mike Kibwage, Salim Abdallah, Isaac Oduor, Dennis Sikhayi, Victor Majid, Edward Seda, Jafari Owiti, Eugene Mukangula, Ezekiel Odera and Alex Orotomal Gor Mahia: Shaban Odhoji (GK), Harun Shakava, Joash Onyango, Godfrey Walusimbi, Philemon Otieno, Humphrey Mieno, Francis Kahata, George “Blackberry” Odhiambo, Innocent Wafula, Jacques Tuyisenge and Ephrem Guikan.   Ingwe coach Rodolfo Zapata has exuded confidence.