Deputy President William Ruto yesterday visited the turf of his rival Baringo Senator Gideon Moi where he delivered goodies to residents, who in turn promised to support his future political ambitions. Although he shied away from making any reference to the 2022 elections, those who accompanied him promised to deliver the votes to him. Mr Ruto, who was with his wife Rachel, was making a second visit to Baringo County in as many months, a region that voted overwhelmingly for Mr Moi in last year’s elections. Mr Moi was defending his senatorial seat against an onslaught by Mr Simon Chelugui, who had the full backing of the DP. DIVISIVE TALK Mr Chelugui, who accompanied the DP yesterday, was appointed Water Cabinet Secretary after losing in the polls. Yesterday, Mr Ruto said he was only interested in the politics of development calling to order Jubilee politicians who he asked to shun divisive talk. Mr Ruto commissioned the construction of the 36-kilometre Oinobmoi-Barwessa Road, graced the opening of more than 70 boreholes funded by JICA and officiated a funds drive at Tenges Boys High School to renovate a dormitory. He said that his focus is to unite and serve Kenyans irrespective of their tribes and political affiliations. DELIVER PROMISES He observed leaders irrespective of their political affiliation should unite for the common good of all Kenyans. The DP said that elected leaders were voted in so that they can serve the interests of their people and deliver what they promised to the electorate. "Elections are over, we are also done with appointments to several positions. What is remaining is for our leaders, especially those elected in Jubilee, to focus on development because Kenyans will measure us through our track record," said Mr Ruto. BIG FOUR AGENDA "Kenyans voted for Jubilee Party in 2013 and 2017 because of the development work we promised and fulfilled," added the DP. He noted that their focus is on the Big Four Agenda touching on provision of universal health care, food security, housing and creation of jobs through improvement of the manufacturing sector. The DP dished goodies promising to commission several development projects in the area. Among the projects he promised is the construction of Poror-Sirwa-Sigoro, which he said the contractor will be on site in three months. LAST MILE He also said that the tarmacking of the 70-kilometre Mogotio-Emsos-Majimoto-Loboi Road would commence in three months. “We have committed Sh600 million for the second and third phase of the Last Mile connectivity project which will see more than 15,000 households in Baringo County connected to electricity,” said Mr Ruto. Baringo North MP William Cheptumo assured the DP that the Rift Valley will support his quest for presidency in 2022. Others who attended the occasion were Irrigation Principal Secretary Fred Segor, Water PS Joseph Irungu, Baringo Central MP Joshua Kandie, Daniel Tuitoek (Mogotio) and former Tiaty MP Asman Kamama. POLITICAL AMBITIONS His sentiments were also echoed by Baringo Deputy Governor Jacob Chepkwony, former Baringo Central MP Sammy Mwaita and former Tiaty counterpart Asman Kamama. Mr Kamama said asked Senator Moi to shelve his ambitions and support the DP. “We started this journey long time ago and we have banked on Ruto to be our next President. Other people from Rift Valley who are eyeing presidency should forego the decision and support the Deputy President,” said Mr Kamama.   Baringo senator tells 'detractors' he is not shelving his political ambitions.