World football governing body Fifa has issued a warning to Croatia player Domagoj Vida over the defender’s unsporting behaviour after his team beat Russia 4-3 on penalties in the quarter-finals on Saturday. The defender, who plays for Besiktas in the Turkish Premier League, scored in Croatia’s victory over Russia in the final quarter-final match of the tournament played in Sochi, and then took to social media to dedicate his team’s victory to Ukraine, angering many Russians. The match ended 2-2 after 120 minutes, and the referee blew the whistle for penalties where Croatia, ranked 20th globally, won 4-3 to reach the semi-finals. Afterwards, a video surfaced online in which former Dynamo Kiev (Ukraine) player Vida is seen shouting “glory to Ukraine!” in the company of Ognjen Vukojevic identified as a recently-retired Croatian international who also played in Kiev. "We can confirm that Fifa’s Disciplinary Committee has sent a warning to the player Domagoj Vida due to his video statement following the 2018 Fifa World Cup match between Russia and Croatia," the football governing body told Russian television channel RT. The slogan ‘Glory to Ukraine!’ has its roots in Ukraine’s nationalist and anti-Russian movement in the 20th century, and became the rallying cry for the Maidan revolution in Ukraine in 2014. The revolution, which started as student protests organised to force President Viktor Yanukovych and Prime Minister Mykola Azarov to sign an association agreement with the European Union, overthrew the government and sparked a counter-revolution in Donbas region in Ukraine. Russia president Vladimir Putin then rolled out a plan to annex Crimea in eastern Ukraine, with Russia sending forces to free Crimea from the rest of Ukraine, attracting international condemnation. Denis Cheryshev had put Russia ahead in the 3ist minute via long-range shot that left Croatia goalkeeper Danijel Subasic rooted to the spot, and Croatia drew level via Andrej Kramavic on 39 minutes before Vida again put the Croats ahead in extra time and celebrated by removing his shirt. With Croatia headed for victory, CSKA Moscow defender Mario Fernandes struck deep in extra time to level the scores 2-2 via a header from a free-kick from inside Croatia’s half, taking the match to penalties after 120 minutes. Ivan Rakitic scored the winning penalty as Croatia returns to the semi-finals for the first time since 1998. On June 30, Fifa fined the Croatian federation Sh7.1 million for breaching the 2018 World Cup marketing regulations. Fifa took issue with the Croatian federation for “displaying unauthorized beverage products” during the team’s round of 16 match against Denmark at Nizhny Novgorod Stadium on July 1, which Croatia won 3-2 on penalties. Fifa also took issue with the “display of personal message” by Croatia’s goalkeeper Danijel Subasic during the match.   Most of the fans believe the trophy is returning to England for the first time since 1966.