What is complicity and why is it important in the war against impunity in public spaces? To answer this question, let us think back to our school days. One of the most painful punishments one could ever endure was when the entire class was punished because no one was willing to tell the teacher who had com-mitted a particular offence. Because of your silence, you were all lumped together as offenders and punished collectively. Now, that is complicity. SYRIA CRIMES LafargeHolcim, which is a majority shareholder of Kenya's Bamburi Cement Limited via its subsidiaries Fincem Holding Ltd and Kencem Holdings Ltd, was last week placed under formal investigations in Paris for complicity in Syria’s crimes against humanity. The company, through its subsidiary, is also accused of sanction violations, endangering the lives of others and financing terrorism. When Syria descended into civil war in 2013, armed groups took over the region where the firm’s Jalabiya plant was located. Despite the continued war, the factory was kept open until September 2014. How did the plant keep operating amidst the escalating violence? PROTECTION MONEY The local Lafarge subsidiary paid protection money to third parties to make working arrangements with armed groups, including sanctioned parties. These payments maintained its operations and ensured safe travel of its employees and suppliers to and from the factory premises. While seeking to keep the business running, money paid to armed groups was recorded as “public relations and factory security” expenses. The company also bought raw materials from suppliers connected to areas controlled by Isis. Lafarge is also alleged to have paid €220,000 to armed groups for the release of nine of its staff kidnapped in 2012. Did the production of cement and Lafarge’s economic interests outweigh the risks and lives of citizens battling a civil war? DEFENCE STATEMENT Lafarge’s defence statement on the issue was that the Jalabiya plant was one of the only sources of income for the surrounding communities. Further, the cement provided infrastructure, businesses and roads throughout Syria. But what have all these amounted to? Barely any infrastructure is operational in Syria; businesses are hardly running and roads are now deserted with no one finding use for them. Despite the decision to keep the firm operational being made locally, it is alleged some members of the Lafarge group management were aware of these arrangements. This is the nub of the matter. Now the entire company has been put on the spot over the complicity of its management. CORRUPTION SCANDALS How does any of this case relate to Kenya? As a country we are currently caught up in one corruption scandal after another, all in quick succession. In all these horrendous cases, the individuals running the adversely-mentioned corporations have failed to take responsibility. Given the grave consequences of utter loss and health risks faced by the public as a result of corrupt practices, it is time corporate liability is linked to criminal liability. It is not acceptable that a business that has deliberately put lives at risk continue to run with only the employees taking on responsibility for the company’s irregular transactions. Of course, where investigations are carried out and the top management is found to have had no knowledge of the mischief employees were up to or and did not provide implied authorisation of such mischief, by all means the company can be absolved from wrongdoing. HELD TO ACCOUNT However, if we are truly going to tackle corruption holistically, businesses that have played a role — even a complicit one — in corruption should be held to account. It is futile to charge individuals and let the businesses keep running, yet the systems of operation remain the same. By holding businesses to account, the perceived fear of loss of reputation and credibility will act as a deterrence to others. Be that as it may, corporate liability to fight corruption will require political goodwill. Elected representatives have a duty to bear true faith and allegiance to both the people and the republic and to faithfully and conscientiously discharge their duties. Every corruption scandal is an opportunity for the public-spirited to stand up, speak out and take action for the millions of lives at stake. There is neither room for complicity nor apathy.  Burini works with international businesses on commercial litigation. gladysburini1@gmail.com  