I have been thinking a lot about marriage lately, particularly after a good friend and mentor said some interesting words the other day. (I will paraphrase, so he does not get too offended that I quoted him in this column, in spite of continued promises that I will never write about him.) He told me; “Njoki, ambitious women like you should approach marriage differently. You can-not afford to be the type of woman who waits to be chosen by a man, you should be in a position to choose the man you think is right for you, the one who will support your dreams with-out feeling insecure.” I found that very profound, especially after I read a story published in the Sunday Nation on Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Monica Juma discussing how talented and brilliant women are failing to take up career-boosting diplomatic positions for “family reasons”. As a young woman who is unapologetic about her ambitions of becoming CEO of a blue-chip company before the age of 40, I took a keen interest in Dr Juma’s thoughts regarding a dilemma most ambitious women battle with; family or career? OPPORTUNITIES Dr Juma said while most women turn down great opportunities that require them to work outside the country, the story is not often the same for their husbands. In fact, women put their careers on hold to accompany their husbands to foreign postings. Then, Dr Juma finished with a poignant point that I would like to make the crux of my column today. She said “a choice between having a family and career is not a choice young women should have to make. More likely than not, family wins. This leads to stalled career progression, which then leads to unfulfillment and diminished confidence.” It follows then that young women with huge career ambitions ought to be meticulous when it comes to choosing a spouse. Do not just settle for the first guy that shows some interest in you. Vet him. Forget societal demands that you should marry by a certain age. TAKE YOUR TIME Take your time. Men never have to worry about their wives supporting their ambitions, but for women, it is different. If you want that kind of experience, you’ve got to pick carefully the man you want to share that ride with. And not every man is confident, secure and supportive enough of women like us, and that is okay. It seems to me women have to come clean to potential spouses about their professional ambitions. Make it crystal clear to him that someday you intend to gun for the big job that would require you to be away from home. If he is not comfortable with your career ambitions, let him walk. Personally, an ideal spouse would be the one I would never have to argue with about how important my career is; be-cause that is a fact of life, family is important, my career is important too and it matters to me that I become successful — so deal with it. Surely, we did not work so hard in school to be-come rich housewives! (Not that there is anything wrong with that). TWO OPTIONS In an article titled If You Can’t Find a Spouse Who Supports Your Career, Stay Single published in the Harvard Business Review, Avivah Wittenberg-Cox argues that “professionally ambitious women really have only two options when it comes to their personal partners — a super-supportive partner or no partner at all”. For ambitious women, it is all or nothing. Note that she said a “super-supportive” partner and not just “supportive” because, more studies have shown men are happy to have successful wives, until their wives’ careers begin to interfere with their own careers and then women are forced to choose between their careers and their families. A study conducted in 2004 by Pamela Stone and Meg Lovejoy dubbed 'Fast-Track Women and the “Choice” to Stay Home' revealed men were reluctant to adjust their schedules and help out more in the household, forcing many “fast-track” women to quit their jobs and stay home with the children. So there you have it, ambitious ladies. Dr Juma said it, and we should listen. We should never be forced to choose between a career and family. Both are important, and both lead to personal fulfilment. The trick is choosing the right partner, and roping them in on your ambitions from early on. In the words of Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg, “make your partner a real partner”. Don’t let anyone shame you into downgrading your ambitions to fit their fragile masculinity.  