Financial operations in various counties have been paralysed following a breakdown of the Integrated Financial Management System (Ifmis). In Kisii County, Finance executive John Momanyi told the Nation the problem started early this month. “The breakdown has adversely affected our operations,” he said. He said the approved 2018/2019 budget could not be uploaded into the system. “This makes it impossible for us to apply for funds,” he said. This is especially challenging for the county which is preparing to host the Kenya Inter County Sports and Cultural Association Games slated for August 12-18. “A lot of money is needed for the preparation of these games and it will be challenging for us to implement our agenda without funds,” he said. SALARIES Workers at the county are now worried that their salaries may be delayed. “I foresee a situation where our monies may be delayed and this may pose a financial challenge in my home given that our children are breaking for the August holiday,” an employee in the Education department said. The same situation is present in Vihiga County. Governor Wilber Ottichilo however said his administration is seeking to end the system challenges that have affected service delivery and implementation of development projects. Dr Ottichilo assured that his administration had engaged the Ifmis director in Nairobi concerning the matter. "One of the biggest challenges in the implementation of our budget is Ifmis. The system director has assured me he will be sending two experts to Vihiga to train our people," the county chief said. In Taita Taveta, workers may be forced to wait longer for their July salaries due to the malfunction. UPGRADE County Finance executive Vincent Masawi said the disruption of the government’s digital payment platform should be rectified quckly. “They are working on it but if the delay is not fixed then all payment processes on the platform will be affected,” he said. In Nyeri, salaries will be delayed due to the collapse of Ifmis despite the devolved unit assenting to the Appropriation Bill on time. According to Finance and Economic Planning executive Robert Thuo, the National Treasury is carrying out Ifmis mapping to introduce new users to the system. He said the process should be completed by Monday and pave way for payment of salaries. “Ifmis has not been working for the last two days because new users are being fed to the system,” he said. According to Mr Thuo, the inefficiencies associated with the system will be reduced as the upgrade has improved features and security measures. “This is a normal upgrade within the government. Nyeri County will be among the first counties to comply with the directive and operations will resume soon,” he noted. SMOOTH OPERATION In Laikipia, a finance officer confirmed that some services had been halted due to the upgrade. In Meru, Finance chief officer Joseph Chabari said the system is yet to be activated as they were in the process of uploading the budget. "We are also updating new users to the system. It is not an outage; it is just part of the processes we have to undertake before we can use the system," he said. While other counties are complaining about Ifmis, Kisumu Finance executive Nerry Achar expressed satisfaction with the system, noting that they have experienced few technological hitches. He said the county has been able to fulfill its financial obligations in a timely manner. “As we speak, the national government does not owe us a single cent and we are hoping to pay July salaries on time,” Mr Achar said. CONTRACTORS Mr Peter Murage, a Nyandarua-based contractor, says his business is on the brink of being auctioned. He is one of the contractors yet to be paid by the Nyandarua County government. He was contracted to supply construction materials worth Sh6 million in the 2013/14 financial year. “Just last week, the police came for me on charges of obtaining money by false pretense,” Mr Murage said. Nyandarua Finance executive Mary Mugwanja said the county has over Sh300 million in pending bills, but won’t pay until a forensic audit is done. “We assure the contractors and suppliers that the county government is willing to pay, but only after a forensic audit is done and they are given a clean bill. We are going to do our best to clear the pending bills in this financial year,” she said. Reporting by Ruth Mbula, Derick Luvega, Lucy Mkanyika, Eric Matara, Victor Rabala, Waikwa Maina, Steve Njuguna and Peter Mutibo.   Accounting officers in national and county governments asked to apply afresh for validation.