The debate on whether or not caning should be reintroduced in schools in the wake of a wave of unrest that has gripped several public institutions is an unwelcome sideshow that only serves to cloud the real issues behind the crisis. Driven by the desire to stamp out the perennial menace, some teachers and members of the National Assembly have opted for a quick fix, asking for the return of the cane. But this is ill-advised. Corporal punishment was banned in secondary schools in early 2000 shortly after the World Education Conference in Dakar that called out governments to stop caning in schools because it amounted to child abuse. NATIONAL OUTRAGE Even before the international pronouncement, caning had already attracted national outrage for the grievous harm and indignity it caused to the learners in addition to giving teachers the image of a brutal, unfriendly and insensitive lot. The reasons why caning was outlawed ring as true today, as they did then. Which is why calls for a reversal of the situation are outrageous. Students don’t go on strike merely because they are indisciplined. They are usually driven by deep underlying reasons that call for well-thought out and methodical answers. Studies have cited communication gaps between the school management and the students, lack of strong guidance and counselling departments, poor living standards and hygiene, especially in boarding schools, among other ills, as the cause of the unrest. DIGITAL GADGETS The current generation of learners is informed and aware of rights courtesy of an unprecedented exposure to the global village through the Internet and digital gadgets. Reintroducing caning can only result in full blown out violence between the teachers and students. The categorical statement by Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed that the debate is moot, therefore, is welcome. But the CS should not stop there. She needs to look at past studies for solutions to end the violence in schools.   Students don’t go on strike merely because they are indisciplined.