A Kirinyaga County minister who was suspended over alleged incompetence and underperformance has sued Governor Anne Waiguru. Mr Peter Mucira Karugumi, who was in charge of the Transport, Roads and Public Works docket, said he was coerced by the governor to sign an undated resignation letter during a Cabinet meeting. According to the case filed at the Labour Court in Nyeri, Mr Karugumi claimed eight other officers were also coerced to sign a similar document despite protests. “On April 19, 2018, while in a Cabinet meeting, I was prevailed upon by the governor and coerced to sign a document titled resignation letter. The said document was undated and seamed to purport that I have or had handed my resignation for a reason that was not specified,” said Mr Karugumi. 'INTIMIDATION' He said he fears Ms Waiguru will “arbitrarily and maliciously use the purported resignation letter” to sack him. Mr Karugumu contends being compelled to sign a resignation letter amounts to blackmail, intimidation and harassment. “I am apprehensive that the act by the governor is malicious to the extent that it is politically motivated, with a touch of impropriety, impunity and graft,” he stated. Mr Karugumi was suspended for one month from June 28 through a letter signed by Ms Waiguru over alleged incompetence and underperformance. “But interestingly there were no particulars provided in the said letter. The letter is too vague and it does not raise any matter that would warrant summary action without giving [me] a hearing. The governor and the county government failed to follow due procedure in [suspending me],” he argued. He said that Ms Waiguru used an unlawful and discriminatory criterion to select employees to be suspended. VOID SUSPENSION Mr Karugumi wants the Labour Court to nullify his suspension. Further, Mr Karugumi wants an order for an injunction against the county government and Ms Waiguru and their agents from sacking him. Alternatively, he wants to be paid salaries and allowances of at least Sh13 million for the remainder of his term and general damages for wrongful termination. Since his appointment in October 2017, Mr Karugumi contends he has diligently performed his duties as expected by the governor and the county government. The case will be mentioned on October 10, this year. Justice Nzioki wa Makau has directed Mr Karugumi to serve the governor and the county government with copies of the suit papers.   Roads and Gender ministers Peter Karugumi and Judy Kinyua suspended for incompetence and inefficiency.