Ford-Kenya party leader Moses Wetang'ula says Nasa coalition is dead as he announced his bid for the presidency in 2022. Mr Wetang'ula termed the coalition as a “history” which cannot be repeated as he took issue with ODM leader Raila Odinga for betraying Kenyans. “Nasa is a moribund organisation. It is history and we always say that those who ignore history run the risk of repeating it. We were in Nasa but suffered a massive betrayal by our presidential candidate and as a party we are now focused on how to strengthen our grassroots support,” said Mr Wetang'ula. The Bungoma senator said that the party leadership will concentrate on building the ground support through meetings before they conduct public rallies ahead of the 2022 General Election. GRABBING POSTS He said the party has been losing chances of grabbing elected posts because of joining alliances with other parties. Mr Wetang'ula also downplayed reports of joining Deputy President William Ruto’s camp as he insisted that his party will field a candidate in the next elections. “I am a presidential candidate; my party has endorsed me as such. How can I join somebody’s camp when I already have my own,” said Mr Wetang'ula while addressing journalists at Gasaro Hotel in Mtwapa, Kilifi County. READ: Now Mudavadi dismisses call to dissolve Nasa He further opened a scathing attack on Mr Odinga accusing him of leaving behind the interests of Kenyans that the opposition had been fighting for. He said what the opposition leader was fighting for has become historical and meaningless “because one of us is now being accommodated.” TRIBALISM Mr Wetang'ula accused Mr Odinga of tribalism, a vice that the opposition was against adding that the grievances that they had, have not been addressed. “We have seen since he got the chance to join the government, the issue of inclusivity is nothing to him. Those who are given top positions are people from his community. What about other Kenyans who supported him? That is not the way to go. That one of us has joined the gravy train does not solve the problems of the country,” said Mr Wetang'ula. Meanwhile, he urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to address the challenges that Kenyans face during elections for peace to be attained in the country. “Peace will only be achieved if there is justice. Even if we shake hands 100 times but no justice is served, we will continue facing the same challenges as a country,” he said.  