When in Russia, visit F1 racing track ***** Russia has hosted virtually all the major sporting events in the world. Moscow hosted the Summer Olympics in 1980 and 33 years later, Moscow hosted the 2013 World Championships in Athletics. Russia’s Black Sea resort city of Sochi hosted the 2014 Winter Olympics, and now, 11 Russian cities are hosting the 2018 World Cup. But Russia is also home to Sochi Formula One Circuit which has been hosting Formula One World Championship races since 2014. In 2010, world motorsports body FIA decided that Sochi would host a new event on the Formula One calendar, beginning in 2014. Open-top bus tours give you good view *****Like most major cities in the world, Moscow has open-top bus tours for visitors. For Sh3,250, one can enjoy a leisurely journey around Moscow on a 48-hour ticket to visit the city’s major attractions. A 48-hour ticket allows one to get off the bus at any destination to see various places then hop into the next bus. One has the option of combining the bus tour with Moscow River Cruise at a discounted price. A friend on the bus said he felt "like one who has won a Uefa Champions League trophy," alluding to the ceremonial trophy tours aboard open-top buses by cup winners. Women live much longer than men *****The last national census in Kenya done in 2009 revealed that there are more females than males in Kenya. Russia has a population of 146 million and according to a report by Russia’s State Statistic Committee published in 2014, there are 10.5 million more women than men in Russia, and women live much longer. The disparity in the average lifespan between genders in Russia is largest in the world. On average, women live nine to 12 years longer than men, while the difference in lifespan is typically only five years in other parts of the world. The number of baby boys and baby girls is nearly equal at birth and many reasons have been advanced for these disparities, one being that later in life, Russian men start losing their lives due to stress, drinking problems and car accidents. Russia Times reported that Russian life expectancy reached record highs with Russians born in 2016 are expected to live 71.87 years on average, according to state statistics agency Rosstat.  