President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday made the first reorganisation of his seven months old government, indicating that he is keen to achieve his agenda in the second term. The President shuffled two Cabinet secretaries, re-appointed at least three Principal Secretaries he had dismissed nearly a month ago and appointed nine new ambassadors. Those picked to serve as ambassadors is former Cabinet Minister Ochillo Ayacko and former Kasipul Kabondo MP Paddy Ahenda, both who are key allies of ODM leader Raila Odinga. BIG FOUR AGENDA The President swapped the portfolios of Cabinet secretaries Adan Mohammed and Peter Munya. Mr Mohamed is now in-charge of East African Affairs and Regional Development Authorities while Mr Munya will head the Industry, Trade and Cooperatives. In a statement issued through State House Deputy Spokesperson Kanze Dena, the President said the decision to reorganise his government is necessitated by the desire to hasten the implementation of the 'Big Four' agenda. Mr Mohamed was first appointed to the Cabinet in 2013 and for the last five years, he has been in the ministry charged with ensuring safety and standards of products consumed by Kenyans. The CS was lately in the news after he dismissed claims by his Interior counterpart Fred Matang’i that sugar sold in the country had mercury, lead and copper. In the other changes, the President also appointed two Chief Administrative Secretaries (CAS). Ms Colleta Suda, who has been a Principal Secretary in the Ministry of Education now becomes the CAS in the same ministry in charge of university education while former West Pokot governor Simon Kachapin is the CAS in the Ministry of Energy. PSs The reorganisation also saw the return of at least three out of the 12 PSs sacked in June for being idle. Ms Fatuma Hirsi, who before the sacking served as PS in the Tourism ministry, makes a return as the PS for Broadcasting. Mr Joe Okudo, who served as PS Arts and Culture, makes a return in the Ministry of Tourism, while Dr Ibrahim Mohamed, who initially served in Mining ministry, goes to Labour. Mr Nelson Marwa has been moved to the Social Protection Department from devolution taken over by Mr Charles Sunkuli. Ms Zainab Abdalla Hussein is the new PS at the Department for Correctional Services, Mr Alfred Cheruiyot moves to the Department of Post Training and Skills Development, while Ms Susan Mochache moves to the Environment and Forestry. Dr Margaret Mwakima becomes Wildlife PS, and Prof Micheni Japheth Ntiba is the PS for Fisheries, Aquaculture and the Blue Economy. Those picked to serve in the foreign missions include former chairperson of Salaries and Remuneration Commission Sarah Serem, Lt. Gen Samuel Thuita, Mr Francis Muhoro, Mr Manoah Esipisu, Mr Paddy Ahenda, Mr Peter Nicholas Oginga Ogego, Mr Johnson Kimani Ondieki, Mr Chris Karumba Mburu and former Ainamoi MP Benjamin Langat. Once an ally of Mr Odinga, Mr Ogego was appointed to serve as Kenya’s ambassador in 2006 following a fallout between Mr Odinga and President Kibaki during the Narc regime. He is remembered as the man who disparaged Senator Barack Obama in 2006, dismissing his claims that corruption and ethnicity had reached a crisis level.  