Kenya’s Beatrice Chepkoech shattered the women’s world 3,000m steeplechase record by eight seconds when winning in Monaca on Friday in 8 minutes and 44.52 seconds. The Commonwealth 1,500m silver medallist became for the first woman to run a sub 8:50 when she broke Kenya born Ruth Jebet of Bahrain’s previous record of 8:52.78 set in Paris on August 27, 2016. Nation Sport picks out some of the best quotes and comments after Chepkoech's World Record breaking feat in Monaco: “Hongera (Congratulations) Beatrice Chepkoech for breaking the 3,000m steeplechase World Record; and Timothy Cheruiyot for setting the new world lead in 1500m respectively at the Monaco IAAF #DiamondLeague. Well run, well won. Kenya celebrates you.” - Kenya President Uhuru Kenyatta on Twitter. President Kenyatta's deputy William Samoei Ruto also hailed Cheopkoech’s record-breaking victory: “Beatrice Chepkoech gets into the history books after smashing the 3,000m steeplechase world record at the Monaco Diamond League meeting. A glorious feat. Beatrice, take a bow. The World is at your feet. #MonacoDL.” “Beatrice Chepkoech didn't just break the world record for the women's 3000m steeplechase.... she smashed it.” - IAAF Diamond League on Twitter. “Congratulations to #BeatriceChepkoech for breaking the world record in women's 3000m SC IAAF Diamond League in #MonacoDL.” - Athletics Kenya on Facebook. Kenya’s Ambassador to Sweden, Joe Sang said on Facebook: “Congratulations to #Kenya's Beatrice Chepkoech @beasteeple for breaking the Women's 3000m Steeplechase #WorldRecord with a time of 8.44.32 @MeetingHerculis." “Congratulations to Beatrice Chepkoech for breaking the 3,000m Steeplechase World Record at the ongoing Monaco IAAF Diamond League. The County Government of Uasin Gishu and the entire Nation is proud of you, it takes determination and hard work to clock 8:44:32. Thanks to Athletics_kenya for continually mentoring our athletes.” - Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago's reaction on Facebook. Journalist Kimaru Kipchillat said: “Congratulations Beatrice Chepkoech for breaking the 3000m women steeplechase world record in Monaco. Your time of 8:44:32 was the greatest displays in women's distance running..."   The South African is currently challenging the IAAF over controversial new rules.