On December 16, 2010, Mohammed Bouaziz, a Tunisian fruit vendor slept having accrued a debt of Sh20,000. He had bought fruits he intended to sell. He never did, because that very day he set himself on fire after unsuccessfully trying to get back his vending cart that had been confiscated by the police. His death sparked civic resistance and demonstrations in Tunisia against high unemployment, corruption, police brutality and inflation. Like Popeye, Tunisians couldn't “stands it no more” and were unrelenting in their quest for better lives. Bouaziz's death was not in vain because those demonstrations, led to the ouster of the then president and began the journey to the Tunisia that stands today. SUFFERING What happened in Tunisia is not strange in Kenya. We are suffering heavily under the arm of corruption, unemployment, inflation and other vices. Promises for a better Kenya as well as threats against these vices have been made and where they have failed to materialise, we’ve been up in arms protesting like Tunisians. However, unlike Tunisia, Kenya’s change has been slow in coming. Tunisians didn’t just oust a president. They passed a new constitution, held fair elections and had their first democratically elected president. All this was achieved in just four years. But this success didn’t just happen. Its seed was planted decades before, throughout the country’s existence. What about Tunisia made these protests and civic unrests result in such positive action and progressiveness? TUNISIA After going through Safwan M. Masri’s book, Tunisia: An Arab Anomaly which explores this question in great and sensitive detail, I believe Tunisians made it because of simple yet highly effective reasons which should be vital lessons for Kenya. First, they invested in a proper education system beginning as early as 1873, where they learnt not only about books but how to think and reason for themselves, moving them away from subjugation to self-assertion. This alone has had the greatest and most long lasting impact on most of Tunisia’s citizens. EXAMS In Kenya, our education system insists on passing examinations. Currently, students are burning schools because they are not being al-lowed to cheat. This shouldn’t be happening. However, our society has placed so much value on passing exams that it has single-handedly changed the goal of education. This must change. The truest goal of education is intellectual and character development to live an honourable and productive life. Two, Tunisia had a strong civil society, which played a major role during those four years. This civil society, like a wise businessman, saw the unrests as an opportunity to fight for a total reprieve from the regime's way of governing and was quick to act in calling for major reforms. SHORT-SIGHTED In Kenya, our civil society fights ‘short-sighted’ fights and is reactive rather than proactive. They fight for example, for teachers/doctors to get a bit more money, for structure demolitions to stop and for life-style audits to be done. They should instead offer an alternative form of governance like pressing for the overhaul of the financial, education, medical and urban planning sectors: Lasting changes that will cause the ‘mwananchi’, especially the worryingly apathetic middleclass, to join in and stick with them for as long as it will take. Three, Tunisia took human rights seriously. Who wouldn't want a government that puts its people first? Add to that, women’s rights. Here, the two-thirds gender rule is yet to be implemented by our parliament! Last, Tunisians were united in not only what they didn't want but in also what they wanted. This might not be the case for us. We all agree that we don't want the continuation of these vices. However, we don't agree on what we want and how to go about it. Thus, even if a protest is successful, we would still be stuck because we haven't agreed on how to move forward.  Ms Wanjohi is the founder, Mazingira Safi Initiative. puri-tywanjohi@msi.or.ke.  