This past week there have been calls by various groups and individuals to reintroduce caning in schools as a solution to the recent spate of unrest and arson attacks in our secondary schools. It is clear that if these voices become loud enough, or powerful enough, the Ministry of Education may succumb to the pressure and allow teachers to start beating up students again as a form of discipline. This is emblematic of our preferred method of solving problems in this country. We are constantly looking out for the quickest, easiest method to ‘deal’ with a problem, even if all the evidence available suggests that the ‘solution’ is useless at best, and harmful, at worst. FALSE DEBATE The false ‘debate’ on physical punishment as a method of improving the behaviour of children and learners in Kenya is unlikely to go away any time soon, and many educationists will tell you that even with the caning ban there are some schools where teachers are actively encouraged to beat up their charges for a variety of infractions. Religious justifications are often cited for this, with the famous injunction “spare the rod and spoil the child” being the most commonly quoted authority for using the cane as a form of discipline. DAMAGED PEOPLE We have argued before in this column that the problem with officialdom in this country is a disregard for real professional opinion, and charlatans and ignoramuses feel very comfortable challenging evidence gathered over centuries with their own unexamined lived experiences. The people advocating a return of caning and other forms of physical punishment in our schools argue that they were physically punished and they turned out alright. The other day a pundit on national TV credited the caning he received in school for his later success in his chosen profession. He indicated that were it not for his parents and teachers severely caning him every time he did something wrong, he might have turned into a dangerous criminal in adulthood. The tragedy is that no professional in behavioural sciences and mental health was brought in to provide the professional perspective. WITH VENGEANCE The result is that many Kenyans are living with the delusion that ‘we were all caned and still turned out alright’. It is amazing that a good number of those trotting out this argument are among the most damaged people in this country. One would not be wrong to imagine that the biggest thing that was caned out of them was their conscience and their empathy, and they are now able to cause or observe suffering without feeling anything. The uncontroverted expert opinion, based on numerous studies, is that firstly, caning and other forms of physical violence are not useful in ‘improving’ behaviour. Caning might momentarily mask the unwanted behaviour, but the risk remains that the caned ‘delinquent’ will resume the impugned behaviour with a vengeance when the ‘caner’ permanently leaves the scene, or when the ‘delinquent’ becomes too strong or too powerful to be intimidated by the ‘caner’. We need not waste our limited column space enumerating the instances of horrendous behaviour our ‘caned’ leaders and public figures engage in when they attain positions of influence. Our formerly caned public officials are not beacons of morality or uprightness. Atwoli is associate professor of psychiatry and dean, Moi University School of Medicine lukoye@gmail.com  