Kenya recognises the importance of science, technology and innovation for social economic development and as one of the most important enablers of Vision 2030. The 4th Industrial Revolution is already here and, as Africa, we should not be playing catch-up. We have all it takes to lead in the fourth and fifth industrial revolutions and, as a country, we have demonstrated that with our own revolutionary innovations, such as M-Pesa. Science, technology, engineering and mathematics (Stem) are the key drivers of industrial growth. The Continental Education Strategy for Africa (Cesa) emphasises strengthening science and mathematics curriculum through rewarding innovation and facilitating implementation of incubator projects and mentorship programmes. To compliment its initiatives in Stem, the government, through the Ministry of Education, last year launched the Young Scientist Kenya (YSK), a unique platform for young people, to demonstrate their innovation and showcase their scientific talents. LAUDED INITIATIVE Two weeks ago, YSK marked a milestone by holding the inaugural Young Scientists Kenya National Science and Technology Exhibition at the KICC. It was presided over by President Uhuru Kenyatta, who lauded the initiative. The exhibition brought together more than 180 secondary school students for three days, presenting 93 projects under the theme ‘Making Stem Education Accessible to All’. The projects were in four broad categories: Physical, chemical and mathematical sciences; technology; ecological and biological sciences; and social and behavioural sciences. But why is science education important? How can we help our young people to appreciate these subjects and pursue them after secondary school? Ideally, teaching the scientific method to students is teaching them how to think, learn, solve problems and make informed decisions. These skills are integral to every aspect of a student’s education and life, from school to career. OVERALL WINNERS The two Nakuru Boys High School students who were crowned the overall winners in this year’s YKS convincingly explained their project on monitoring how different electronics use power in the house, schools or office. YSK, with the directive of the President to roll out the initiative nationally, has become a true national young scientist’s movement for the socio-economic and environmental development of our country. As YSK, we now embark on multi-stakeholder engagement and invite those working in Stem to join. We have to create strong linkages. The focus on high schools is the greatest investment we have made and the dividends are enormous. Science is one of the most important subjects in our school curriculum due to its relevance to students’ lives and the universally applicable problem-solving and critical thinking skills it uses and develops. These are lifelong skills that allow students to generate ideas, weigh decisions intelligently and even understand the evidence behind public policy-making. Dr Desai is the Principal Secretary for Vocational and Technical Education (TVET), Ministry of Education. kevitdesai@gmail.com.  