Water droplets fill the air as Riara River hurtles onto unyielding black rocks lying vertically. You may call the waterfall noisy, but the calmness of the vegetation and everything else around it makes you think there is a rhythm you are missing. You can even call it lonesome, until you hear the intermittent chirps of birds that are probably singing odes to the age-old waterfall that is about six metres tall. Marvelling at the sight, we, for a moment, forgot we were touring a coffee farm. Tucked on the edge of the 44-hectare Fairview Coffee Estate in Kiambu County, the waterfall, whose water is piped then used to irrigate coffee bushes, has been receiving growing attention over the years. We were at the spot shortly after 1pm. We refused to let the dull, cold-inducing clouds hanging overhead to dampen our resolve to savour the rudimentary beats of the falls and to snap away our frames against the gushing background. “This is tall enough to produce electricity!” photographer Anthony Omuya shouted. Our guides, farm director Michael Warui and farm promoter Millicent Onjoro, said in terms of height and magnificence, the waterfall beats many in the locality. WHAT WE HAVE Earlier, they had led us to a garden at a corner of the farm. With manicured grass and a great ambience, no one needed further explanation on why the site has been used by such creatives as J Blessing to shoot music videos. The garden, facing a large pool, is also a popular venue for couples exchanging vows. “On average, we have one or two weddings a month here,” said Mr Warui. Just two days earlier, a group of 76 tourists from various Asian countries had visited the farm. Among the activities they engaged in was touring sections of the expansive farm on foot, tasting the various varieties of coffee at the lab, and having lunch at the garden. “I think they had a good time,” said Ms Onjoro. We were at the farm to have a taste of agritourism, a budding phenomenon in Kenya where owners of large farms invite visitors to their estates at a fee. These farm owners aim to sell elements of history, agricultural practices, and natural and man-made features in their plantations. Besides Fairview, which is off Kiambu Road — barely half an hour drive from Nairobi — there is Karunguru Estate Coffee Farm in Juja that also offers tours. “Karunguru Coffee Tours invites all domestic and international tourists to come and experience a different side of Kenya,” says a message on the farm’s website. In Nakuru County’s Malewa West Ward, owners of Morendat Farm have also been conducting tours on their 33.5-hectare vineyard from which they produce wine under the brand, Leleshwa Wines.    The farm was emboldened to hold tours after one of their wine brands, the 2017 Sauvignon Blanc, won a double-gold at the Michel Angelo International Wines and Spirits Awards. They took journalists round the farm on December 7, 2017. “We decided to do a few small-group tours and see how we can package something for the broader public in future from the feedback. Most tours around the world include different vineyards, but in this case we’re the only one,” the farm’s sales and marketing manager, Ms Wairimu Kimani, said during the tour. And in Bungoma County, the owner of 50-acre Graceland Farm, Mr Ben Amboko, has been inviting visitors to tour his farm to see monkeys, sample his farming techniques, hike on hills inside the farm and marvel at indigenous trees, among other attractions. “The farm is criss-crossed by two permanent rivers, and it has a very nice natural environment. It is all fenced by kei apple. And there are lots of monkeys,” Mr Amboko told Lifestyle last week. Kenya Tourism Board says there are many farms across the country that can attract tourists, with Kericho Tea Plantations topping a list on its website. “The plantations here create beautiful vistas of rolling green hills, each interlaced with lines of tea pickers winding through the bushes. At the centre, the small town of Kericho is a charming reminiscent of the British Hill Stations of India,” the board says on the Magical Kenya website. It also lists Naivasha flower farms as a possible tourist site. “Several farms are open to tourists, greenhouses and other facilities,” it says. Last on its list are coffee farms. “Kenyan coffee is considered one of the world’s best and competes successfully with the best Latin American crops,” says the tourism body. Speaking of coffee farms, both Fairview and Karunguru have history as part of their selling points. The former was founded in 1909 while Karunguru started in 1928 — both by white settlers who later transferred them to Kenyans. “Welcome to a buffet style lunch with a drink that you can enjoy at the gardens in a picnic style, or formally in our old English-style ballroom,” says a message on Karunguru’s website.    THE ESTATE A representative of the farm told Lifestyle they have rooms for up to 15 visitors, who are welcome from Tuesday to Saturday. “A few weeks ago, a group of Germans came and we had a really nice time with them because, usually, we offer Kenyan meals. Many people from outside the country enjoy food that has a Kenyan feel. So, instead of offering a fancy meal, we offer meals that have mrenda, githeri and others,” she said. The Karunguru Farm was founded by the Glassfords, a settler family. In 1974, it was bought by Kariithi Karekia, then a 300-acre farm. “For the legacy of his father to live on, he called the farm Karunguru after his father. Little did he know that this small 300-­acre farm would grow into a coffee producing branded company of about 500 acres that markets the fertility of Kenyan soil and the quality of our coffee,” says a message on the farm’s website. Fairview was first owned by Mrs Eveline Poy and transferred to Fairview Estates in 1924, to Mr Oliver Tait in 1962, then to Ngoru Enterprises in 1962. Ngoru would later change its name to Fairview Estate. “For over four decades, the estate has been owned by former Kenyan ambassador to the United States, Amb Leonard Oliver Kibinge, and his family,” says a promotional publication from Fairview. Mr Kibinge’s children are all directors at the farm, with Mr Warui being their spokesman. The decision to venture into coffee tours, they say, was out of a desire to diversity their sources of income. The farm is located at an area where coffee bushes are disappearing fast to pave the way for high-rise buildings that dot the landscape. “There have been so many things affecting coffee, like climate change, and you find that many people are uprooting coffee because the cost of production is very high,” said Ms Onjoro. “That’s how the innovative idea came up — doing coffee tourism so that we are able to keep the farm, but also make revenue from it, like get extra revenue from gate entry fees and sell coffee on the farm. That way, we are able to make the farm more profitable and sustainable. The end goal is to improve the lives of workers who live here,” she added. Mr Warui added that they also borrowed a leaf from South Africa, where tours to vineyards bring in handsome incomes to farmers. Fairview has a website through which visitors can book their visits. Its administrators have also networked with travel agents to refer visitors there. One of the unique features of such visits is trekking — as tourists need to walk to interact more intimately with the coffee and the general ambience, as opposed to merely being shuttled in vans. “They don’t get opportunities to walk around and to engage the Kenyan culture. When they come to Fairview, there are ample opportunities to go hiking and enjoy the beautiful environment you see around. We have a dam site, we have waterfalls, and there is birdwatching,” said Mr Warui. The farm’s tour guides conduct trips between 10am and 12pm, and between 2pm and 4pm. “You just key in the time you’re able to come for a tour. If it’s available, you’ll get an e-mail welcoming you,” said Ms Onjoro. “We get bookings every day.” The farm charges Sh1,000 for Kenyan adults, while children aged 12 to 18 pay Sh500. Foreigners with Kenyan residency status pay Sh2,000 while those who are not residents pay $30 (Sh3,000). TOURISM Once payment is done, attendants are taken round the farm and, after coffee tasting, the final offering of the tour, visitors are allowed to do whatever they please on the farm’s garden. “We take them to the gardens where they are able to enjoy our premium grades of coffee. They are also free to have picnics. After that, they can go hiking and birdwatching,” Ms Onjoro explained. “You can just come to listen to the music of birds, to fish or to picnic. When we don’t have weddings and clients come for tours, it's a good place for family bonding,” she added. By next year, the farm management says it will be possible for visitors to stay overnight as boarding facilities will have been constructed. “We have a target of 70,000 visitors a year. When we hit that number, we’ll do more innovative businesses, for example a coffee-themed park,” said Mr Warui. Fairview also flaunts the fact that it is very close to Nairobi, and Mr Warui noted that most guests are left in awe when they learn that there is such a spacious venue right next to the city. The highlight of our trip to Fairview was the coffee tasting. We were welcomed to the tasting lab by a high-pitched sound of coffee roasting machines. No one needed any prompting to wake up and smell the coffee. Soon after, ground coffee classified in different grades was placed on the table and we were taken through the nitty-gritty of tasting it, which also involves smelling. Then it was time to do the real tasting, which, as the resident connoisseur Anne Wambui explained, involves pouring hot water on the ground coffee, letting it dissolve without stirring then slurping the solution into the mouth. Fairview’s approach is almost similar to Karunguru, the Juja-based farm, only that the latter has designed its programme differently. At Karunguru, a visitor is taken round various sites of the farm to have a feel of the coffee growing process. Then they are treated to lunch, and their rule is that most vegetables served are grown on the farm. Coffee tasting at Karunguru does not happen in a lab, unlike Fairview. Visitors are expected to sit at gardens. “You taste different grades, types and varieties of coffee paired with various small pastries,” says their promotional material. Among their offerings are chilli coffee, bamboo-infused coffee and vanilla coffee. “After this, you can buy an array of items from our farm, coffee, jam and honey, at very affordable prices,” the Karunguru owners add. Fairview also sells ground coffee to visitors. From the design of the tours, it appears Kenyan farmers are cultivating a culture that may soon blossom into a multimillion facet of tourism.  