A senior police officer in Rongo, Migori County is nursing serious injuries at Rongo Sub County hospital after he was attacked by residents. Mr Victor Oduor Nyongesa, who is the North Kamagambo OCS, had led a team of police officers on Friday night to arrest a suspect involved in a property dispute when an irate mob pelted them with stones. The OCS sustained injuries on his face, hands and stomach while two other officers escaped with minor injuries. Rongo OCPD Jonathan Kisaka said the officers were following up on case when they were attacked. PROPERTY ROW The local chief, Mr John Agoro, said the police officers had gone to the village to arrest a woman for illegally seizing the property of her widowed daughter-in-law. “The woman was only woken at night when the officers accompanied by her daughter-in-law were repossessing the property. Her wails attracted villagers who wondered why the operation was taking place past midnight,” Mr Agoro said. The policers were overpowered by the villagers who were armed with stones and other crudes, and they had to shoot several times in the air. ARRESTS After the attack, four residents including a high school student, were arrested and allegedly flogged in the police station. Two residents, Mr Eddy Ogolla and Mr Sospeter Oyala, said the police were retaliating following the attack. The four are also nursing injuries at a local hospital. North Kamagambo MCA Samuel Orima blamed the police officers for provoking the residents. “The armed police officers arrived at a widow’s home after midnight and started taking away two ox-drawn ploughs and sugarcane crushers,” said Mr Orima. INCITED But Mr Kisaka said the villagers were incited against the police officers. "Our investigation has indicated that the residents were clearly incited by local politicians. This is very unfortunate,” said Mr Kisaka. “It has made us question if the public has confidence in our services when police officers in uniform and on duty are attacked,” Kisaka added. He said the four suspects arrested over the attack will be arraigned later this week.  