Researchers in the United States have approved a “new” drug for treating recurring malaria. The drug, called tafenoquine is the first such anti-malarial drug to be given a clean bill of health in over 60 years. The approval by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of the United States is seen as a shot in the arm for the fight against recurring malaria. Once it is allowed to sell in drug stores around the world, tafenoquine is expected to significantly reduce deaths from recurrent malaria. Caused by plasmodium vivax, recurring malaria affects 8.5 million people around the world every year. Over the years this type of malaria has been difficult to combat due to the virus’ uncanny ability to remain inactive in the human liver for years before regenerating and causing infections. RESERVOIRS Researchers say that affected human beings act as reservoirs for the virus, and mosquitoes can transmit the virus to other people upon a bite. However, this type of malaria is uncommon in sub-Saharan Africa. Before tafenoquine, primaquine was used to flush out the virus from the liver. But the 14-day dose was not effective as patients would abandon the drug after feeling better after a few days of taking the medicine, which would allow the virus to “awaken” after some time. On the other hand, tafenoquine is a one dose drug that, besides its effectiveness, can be taken alongside other drugs. SINGLE DOSE “The ability to get rid of the parasite in the liver with a single dose of tafenoquine is a phenomenal achievement. [Tafenoquine] represents one of the most significant advances in malaria treatment in the last 60 years," Prof Ric Price of Oxford University told the BBC. However, researchers have voiced concerns over the side-effects of the drug, among them accelerating anaemia for patients with enzyme condition known as G6PD deficiency. Tests for this deficiency are therefore highly recommended before prescription. The drug can also adversely affect people suffering from mental illnesses if taken in large doses. Developed by giant pharmaceutical company GSK, tafenoquine has been in existence since the 1970s but had not been approved for treatment of malaria.   Tafenoquine is the first such anti-malarial drug to be given a clean bill of health in over 60 years.