The ‘neighbour principle’ is derived from the law of negligence and it directly relates to the recent influx of contraband in Kenya. The proponent of the principle is a famous common law judge, Lord Atkin, in the famous Scotland case of Donoghue V. Stevenson (1932). In the matter, remains of a rotten snail were found in ginger beer that had been consumed by the deceased, who suffered gastro-related problems. It was decided that manufacturers have a legal duty of care to the consumers of their products. The House of Lords derived this principle from the Christian principle of “loving your neighbour as you love yourself”, which can be found in James 2:8 and also the parable of the Good Samaritan in the Bible. Negligence is simply carelessness. The principle emphasised that “the rule that you are to love your neighbour becomes (in law) you must not injure your neighbour and that you must take reasonable care to avoid acts or omissions which you can reasonably foresee would be likely to injure your neighbour.” CONTRABAND SUGAR My “neighbour” is a person who is closely and directly affected by my act that I ought to have in contemplation as being so affected when I direct my mind to the acts or omissions which are called in question. For contraband sugar laced with toxic heavy metals to have made it to our retail stores for sale to the public, that clearly points to negligence. And the risk was foreseeable. Kenya has agencies such as the Anti-Counterfeiting Agency and the Kenya Bureau of Standards (Kebs) charged with quality assurance of products. As to who is responsible for the lapse in regulating the imports, that is just an academic argument. The concept of negligence known in the law of civil wrongs requires three aspects to be validly proven to establish negligence: Duty of care, breach of that duty and damage. The traders selling contraband sugar and cooking oil owed the Kenyan public (‘neighbours’) a duty of care not to sell harmful foodstuff brought allegedly via the black market. PUBLIC EYE Breach of that duty is in the full glare of the public eye as warehouse after warehouse countrywide is found hiding contraband, which is secretly distributed to retailers for sale to an unsuspecting public. In common law, a person can claim damages from a defendant where that defendant owed them a duty of care and harmed that person through their conduct in breach of that duty. If a person is near another, or near to the property of another, the duty is upon them not to do that which may cause personal injury to that other person or their property. NEGLIGENCE Proximity between the parties is necessary but the defendant should be responsible for any damage caused by his breaches. The jury is out as to whether it was the public’s contributory negligence that brought about this catastrophe. But, in all fairness, a phantom trader’s carelessness brought about the menace. Kenyans are holding their breath to see suspects put between the gavel and a block of wood in a court of law. Mr Ayuo is a lawyer and tutor. ayuotimothy@gmail.com.  