Detectives and Independent Policing Oversight Authority (Ipoa) officials are investigating three Administration Police officers based at Muruka camp for allegedly beating up a suspect to death. The officers are investigating the death of Mr Peter Kamande who was arrested on July 1 this year after his mother reported him to the camp over alleged petty theft. But the family says they were notified to go look for his body at the mortuary a day after his arrest. Mr Kamande’ brother, Mr Wainaina Wanyoike, says they only wanted him arrested and charged but were shocked to learn of his death. The family told the Nation they were told to check the mortuary only after nagging the officers over Mr Kamande's whereabouts since they had realized he had not been booked at Kandara Police Station. “My brother was very healthy. He was not sick and had no chronic illness. We handed him to the police in good condition but instead of proceeding to court we proceeded to Thika General Kago mortuary where they took him after killing him” Mr Wanyoike said. Mr Wanyoike said police officers visited their home at around 11pm to get the details of their mother but did not disclose to them anything about Mr Kamande. Police claimed he collapsed and died at the AP camp. “We proceeded to the mortuary, identified the body which had torture marks. Post mortem was later conducted and revealed that my brother died of severe internal bleeding,” said Mr Wanyoike. A detective who sought anonymity told the Nation that the investigations are at an advanced stage and the three officers may be charged next week for murder. The detective told the Nation that the deceased was taken to Kandara Police Station by the AP officers at around 8pm when he was already dead but were advised to take him to the morgue. Murang’a County Commander Mohammed Farah said he would only comment on the issue after perusing the post-mortem report. "We have received the complaints from the family and the investigation is ongoing," the police boss said.  