An engineering student at Zetech University, Anthony Muthungu, is in South Africa to participate in an innovation conference. Mr Muthungu is among several participants from Africa who were nominated for the conference by Advancing Healthcare Innovations Africa. The conference is taking place in Johannesburg and will end on Friday. The initiative is a multi-phased programme led by professions in science, business, and law with the aim of helping scientists move their innovations from the laboratory to the market. Mr Muthungu was nominated to participate in the event for his innovation in artificial intelligence following his latest innovation designed to empower the visually impaired to easily navigate their path while using a cane. ELECTRIC WALKING CANE His product, dubbed the Intelligent Smart Cane, is an electric walking cane that assists those with low vision and the blind to walk freely, preventing them from colliding with objects. The smart cane uses five volts power battery to run the control unit which is connected to a number of sensors that detect obstacles. Once the object is detected at a distance, a message is passed to the user through a set of earphones describing the object and the distance between the user and the object. GOLDEN CHANCE “The conference is an eye-opening experience and a golden chance to network with more established scientists committed to transforming the world through science and technology,” said Mr Muthungu. He went on: “I appreciate this unique opportunity to learn about the business, legal and scientific considerations of moving a product to the market. My passion to use technology to address healthcare needs is timely given the country’s focus on the Big Four agenda which includes universal healthcare.” Zetech University Vice-chancellor Njenga Munene said the institution is proud of Mr Muthungu who continues to develop his spectacular innovation even beyond the borders of Kenya, “We would like to congratulate him for the nomination that speaks to his commitment and ingenuity in creating solutions that address current needs in the society,” said the VC. He went on: “As we expand our research and extension portfolio, we continue to ensure that our students and staff do more in this area so as to produce graduates who will impact the world.”  