IN MOSCOW Inside the two Fifa World Cup media centres in Moscow, she is known among journalists as "Madam Fifa." Segolene Valentin, Fifa’s Media Relations Officer seconded from Zurich to help the 2018 World Cup Local Organising Committee team with media logistics in Moscow, is the go-to person here. On match days at media centres in Luzhniki Stadium or Spartak Stadium, she deals with journalists from more than 200 countries. One minute she is calling the media centre to order so she can issue out tickets to journalists to enable them access media tribune during matches, the next minute she is explaining to a journalist why he can’t attend a press conference where England captain Harry Kane and coach Gareth Southgate are scheduled to speak. She wears many hats in the media centre and those manning information desks at the media centres located at Luzhniki Stadium and at Spartak Stadium all report to her, including volunteers at the stations. Then Manchester United legend Ryan Giggs who coaches Welsh national team enters the media centre and journalists scramble for a piece of him. But his security details throws a ring around him and journalists are pushed away. No interviews. He is here strictly on contract to analyse England’s knock-out match against Colombia here at Spartak Stadium. “I am part of a team of three Fifa media officials and my duty is to sort out all manner of problems the media here can, particularly print media,” she told me on Tuesday at the press centre located at Spartak Stadium. A Brazilian journalist arrives to check on her application for a ticket to the media tribune two minutes into our interview, and she leaves to attend to her. "How do you manage to attend to so many people like this?” I ask. “I am just doing my work which involves ensuring that the media here can work smoothly. I coordinate press conferences for teams and coaches and interviews at the mixed zone. I also ensure everything is fine at the media tribune,” she tells me. It is journalists seeking accreditation at the last minute who bring out Valentin’s leadership qualities. She is polite but firm in her responses to nagging questions by journalists who will not take no for an answer to requests for tickets. “There are no more tickets for the mixed zone. I have given out everything available,” she tells a group of journalists before repeating the same message in French. It is just minutes to kick-off of England’s match against Colombia and she has to leave for the mixed zone to coordinate coverage. “I leave for Zurich tomorrow morning,” she says as she heads to the stadium. Inside the stadium, she is guiding a team of more than 50 photojournalists who are here to cover the match. At full-time, she ensures only accredited journalists have access to the mixed zone and the press conference areas. It is another day in the life of Valentin.  