Governors have exuded confidence that the posting of Cuban doctors to various hospitals across the country will help boost health services. The county bosses said the medics would be vital in supplementing the work of the already strained staff. In Kakamega, Governor Wycliffe Oparanya said he received two doctors posted by the government to the region — ICU and family health specialists. “We need 250 doctors to fill the gap in our facilities,” said Mr Oparanya. BUSIA In Busia, two doctors have been posted to the county’s referral hospital while three doctors have started work Kisumu. Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o said a neurosurgeon and critical care specialist will be based at the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral while a family health physician will work at Kombewa Sub-County Hospital. “We have allocated them drivers who will be taking them round where they are needed,” said Prof Nyong’o. Vihiga Governor Wilber Ottichilo said the medics would offer the much-needed expertise. In Migori, Governor Okoth Obado said the doctors would help reduce referrals to hospitals outside the county. His Trans Nzoia counterpart, Patrick Khaemba, promised adequate security for the two doctors who have been posted to the county. In Mombasa, health executive Hazel Koitaba said a family health specialist has been posted to Kisauni Sub-county hospital. “That is where we have had a lot of cases being referred to Coast General Hospital,” she said. Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya said the health workers in the county would benefit from the expertise of the Cuban doctors. Lamu patients have also started benefiting from the services of the Cuban doctors, who are based at King Fahad County Hospital. SOUTH RIFT Nakuru, Narok and Nyandarua counties received two doctors each. In Nakuru, Governor Lee Kinyanjui said the county government was more interested in knowledge transfer. “We want them to help train our doctors,” he said. He said that through the knowledge transfer, the county seeks to create a system that will change the patient-doctor relationship. In Nyandarua, Governor Francis Kimemia said the two doctors sent to the county would offer outreach services at various hospitals.  Reports by Benson Amadala, Gaitano Pessa, Rushdie Oudia, Vivere Nandiemo, Anita Chepkoech, Derrick Luvega, Gerald Bwisa, Sammy Lutta, Florah Koech, Magdalene Wanja, Macharia Mwangi, George Sayagie, Fadhili Fredrick, Stephen Oduor, Kazungu Samuel and Mohamed Ahmed   Misango wants the court to bar the Immigration Department from issuing the specialists with work permits.