The International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) on Thursday announced that Nairobi had been selected as the host city of the 2020 IAAF World Athletics Under-20 Championships. This follows a largely successfully World Under-18 Championships held 2017 with a record turnout of over 60,000 fans attending. Kenyans and the world took to the social media and other channels to celebrate the achievement. Nation Sport looks at some of the reactions: “Delighted @iaaforg Council approved @athletics_kenya for U20 WCH in 2020. With 42% of Kenya's population under 15 years of age and the 60,000 crowds that attended last year's U18 WCH in Nairobi it should be a great event.” - IAAF president Sebastian Coe on Twitter. “I am delighted that @iaaforg has selected Nairobi to host the 2020 U20 @IAAFWorldChamps. This is a vote of confidence in our ability to deliver on a massive global event and recognition of our status as a powerhouse in athletics. We set the bar with the U18s. ASANTE SANA!.”-Preisdent Uhuru Kenyatta on Twitter. Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Echesa on Twitter: “Nairobi, Kenya will play host to the prestigious IAAF World Under-20 Championships in the year 2020. I would like to assure the sporting fraternity that we will put proper plans, structures and systems in place to ensure that the event runs smoothly and successfully.""The decision that was reached by the IAAF top brass comes with a lot of pride and joy. We are honoured to have been considered amongst the various countries that put in their bid to host the event, this is indeed history in the making my fellow Kenyans.” The president of Athletics Kenya, Lt Gen (Rtd) Jackson Tuwei said: "The Executive Committee of AK, athletes and entire athletics fraternity are very excited to receive the good news from the IAAF that Kenya has been selected to host the WU20 in 2020. It is indeed a great honour to us all, particularly the great athletes who have significantly contributed to the development of world athletics over the years. All are welcomed back to Kenya, the home of heroes." “It’s coming home again!! Bring it on!” - The 2014 Commonwealth and 2015 World javelin champion, Julius Yego said on Twitter. Sam Maina on Facebook: “The bid to host the IAAF World Under-20 Championships in 2020 is Kenya's very own. Henceforth, it should be all systems go if the nation want higher notches of repute similar to the World Under-18 Championship.” “Nairobi it is for 2020 :-)...Super Exciting!! IAAF has selected Nairobi to host World U20 Athletics Championships in 2020. The championships will be held between July 7-12, 2020." - Sports journalist Michelle Dee Katami on Facebook. “By hosting an outstanding World U18 Champs last year, Nairobi demonstrated its readiness to take the next step as a championship host. #Nairobi2020.” “IAAF World U20 in 2020 will be fire! Nairobi to put on another brilliant show as host as @iaaforg rightly put it “By hosting an outstanding final edition of the IAAF World U18 Championships last year, Nairobi demonstrated its readiness to take the next step as a championship host.” - Sports journalist Celestine Karoney on Twitter.   City in the Sun to host 2020 World U-20 Championships.