Few Model Management, a notable name and fast growing model management company from Nigeria, has launched Few Next Face Africa 2018. This is a model search, scouting for talent across Africa. Kenya is the next stop after their July 24 auditions in Ethiopia. In Kenya, the search will be spearheaded by Kenya's Mochez Models, a casting and modelling agency. The auditions will take place at Fairmont The Norfolk Hotel, Nairobi, on July 28. Mochez Models had a press conference on Friday morning at the same hotel, with the aim of the forum being fostering participation by stakeholders in the fashion industry and Few Model Management. From here, the search heads to Lagos, Nigeria, on August 2, where selected models will join other selected contestants from Kenya and Ethiopia. Applicants should go to the auditions looking their most natural and also carry four photos: full-length, waist-up, close-up, and profile shot outdoors in natural daylight but not in direct sunlight. They should be taken with no makeup on, the hair worn down, and no smiles. These models will be trained for five days at a boot camp leading up to the grand finale where the winner will be awarded Sh200,000 and a three-year modelling contract each (with Few Models and IMG Models Worldwide – Paris, Milan, London, New York, Australia). The winner will also get to walk on the runway alongside IMG top models Ajak Deng, Lexi Boling, Hanne Gaby Odiele and Bella Hadid. TALENT SEARCH Few Model Management is one of Nigeria's leading modelling agencies, a high fashion modelling and scouting agency, which places models in major international agencies around the world. Founded by Bolajo Fawehinmi, who is also the director, Few Model Management discovered Nigerian top models Eniola Abioro and Ayobami Okekunle. IMG Models is the international leader in talent discovery and model management, widely recognised for its diverse client roster. The agency's offices are located in six world capitals: New York, Los Angeles, Paris, London, Milan and Sydney. It was founded by legendary sports agent Mark McCormack, who believed models could be managed as talent in the same vein as professional athletes, actors and other entertainers; and that their popularity could be leveraged into strong personal brands beyond the magazine page or runway. IMG Models boasts an impressive roster of top talent, which includes fashion icons Kate Moss, Stephanie Seymour, Carolyn Murphy, Amber Valletta, Alek Wek, Gisele Bündchen, Noah Mills, Tyson Ballou, and Lauren Hutton; and supermodels Karen Elson, Daria Werbowy, Joan Smalls, Karlie Kloss, Lara Stone, Gemma Ward and Miranda Kerr among others. MOCHEZ is a modelling and casting agency based in Nairobi, Kenya. Started in 2009 by Dorothy Oliech to train dancers and models, it has since grown into a leading casting agency that includes actors of all ages. At the moment, they have a portfolio of more than 50 models. The agency has seen its models grace runway shows in Africa such as the Mozambique Fashion Week, Fashion High Tea and FAFA.  