Q. I have a senior boss who communicates unclearly and the result is that sometimes I do the wrong thing. He mixes up things, or fails to give all the necessary information or sometimes just fails to follow up when supposed to. What is the best way to relay my frustrations?  It is important to understand your roles and responsibilities, however most employees do not study the workstyle and expectation of their respective supervisors. You can possess skills and competence to perform your role, but if there is communication breakdown this will be in futility. We don’t all have the same communication style; therefore it is important to seek to understand how your colleagues and superiors communicate. The assumption is that seniority makes one an effective communicator, a fact further from the truth. Traditionally, key performance indicators were agreed upon annually and reviewed mid-year. With your current boss, this discussion must happen more often so that you have clear direction on what is expected from you. Learn to check often with your boss when working on a project or assignment. It helps if you check at every milestone if you are delivering as agreed. It is your responsibility to follow up with your boss and give constant feedback. This gives an opportunity to be redirected in case you did not understand the initial briefing. Your boss might have many direct reports, therefore expecting him to follow up with you is unrealistic. It is not clear, whether the instructions given are verbal or documented. To minimise misunderstanding, document notes after your discussions and have a follow-up session to agree on and confirm the action points. You should also learn to look inwards as well. Have you considered you could be misunderstanding the instructions given by your boss? It would be good to evaluate both angles to avoid the ‘blame game’. In an organisation, no single person is the custodian of all information, therefore find out who else can share the relevant information that you require to accomplish the assignment. Teamwork skills become very critical in such a situation. You will be surprised perhaps a member in your team understood the instructions and has the information and all that was required is just an informal chat for you to succeed. In order to resolve this issue, I suggest you get a specific example to identify the weak link in communication. Most probably even your boss is frustrated and this discussion will be a relief to both of you. Present different options that can improve communication between the two of you. It should not be a contest but rather an opportunity to reach an amicable solution. Beware that failure to deliver due to poor communication is not an admissible excuse. You had the option of asking for clarification but you chose the easier route of doing the wrong thing and blaming it on someone.   It can create a superiority and inferiority complex to the recipients depending on the amount earned.