A recent survey by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS) revealed that unemployment in Kenya stands at 7.4 per cent. While this number puts the debate on the level of unemployment that has previously been grossly over-estimated, it still paints a grim picture of seven million Kenyans being unemployed, with many of them having given up searching for jobs. This challenge is likely to increase since the economy is only able to generate 800,000 jobs against an estimated 1 million young people joining the labour market every year. SHORTAGE A 2015 study by McKinsey, the consulting firm, revealed that though many young people remained unemployed, many employers were unable to fill all the vacancies they had. Why? The unemployed youth lacked the skills that the employers needed. In Kenya, for instance, it is evident that there is a limited supply of qualified workers in the technical trades. Most notably, the construction sector suffers from a severe shortage of qualified plumbers. This is similar in fashion and design, automotive engineering and carpentry. This is a serious challenge for Kenya, especially since the manufacturing and oil and gas sectors are expected to expand in the coming years. SDGs The decision by the United Nations to designate July 15 as the World Youth Skills Day is therefore welcome. The purpose of the day, which was first celebrated in 2015, is to raise awareness on the importance of investing in youth skills development. Importantly, the issue of upskilling youth is captured in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and is a driving theme of President Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda. The government has made numerous efforts to address the issue through expanding primary and secondary education as well as reforming the Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) sub-sector. 95 PER CENT The continuing improvements in the TVET sector are to be celebrated and supported. Most notable here are the efforts to shift from the traditional curricula to competency-based education and training that makes the training more practical and therefore prepares the students to be ready for the first day at work. However, two challenges stand out: First, is the negative perception of young people – anchored in prevalent attitudes in the society – towards TVET education. For instance, it is estimated that about 95 per cent of secondary school pupils plan in Kenya aspire to attain a university degree even though only 30 per cent of future jobs will require the qualification. This might explain the low enrolment in the 591 TVET institutions across the country. TVET The second, and perhaps more pertinent issue, regards the mastery of basic literacy and numeracy skills. This, in fact, is the theme of this year’s World Youth Skills Day. The quality of education that young Kenyans are receiving in primary school poses serious challenges for their future educational careers at the TVET level. Undoubtedly, this is a challenge that the government cannot solve on its own. Private sector actors and development partners must help address them. In the recently launched Safaricom Foundation 2018-2021 strategy, we identified basic literacy and numeracy and TVET as priority areas within our Elimu (Education) pillar. LABOUR SKILLS In line with SDGs Four (Quality Education); Eight (Decent Work and Economic Growth), 10 (Reduced Inequalities) and 17 (Partnerships for the Goals), we are working with partners to create solutions to youth unemployment. For instance, we are exploring how we can digitize the TVET curriculum to enable more youth access learning material that will lead to their professional certification by the National Industrial Training Authority. It’s a single step, but in this way we hope to develop the skilled labour badly required in sectors such as housing and manufacturing – and to restore pride in blue collar jobs. The writer is the Chairman, Safaricom Foundation  