The 24 year-old is a fast-rising Kenyan creative to watch out for. She talks to KAREN MURIUKI on how she got to where she is and her plans for the future.  Fill us in on your background... Tewa is a nickname from my brother when he was three! I have two elder step-sisters and a younger brother who’s 13. I went to Makini Primary School, Precious Blood High School, and Brookhouse International. I then went to the University of Leeds in the United Kingdom to study Architectural Engineering.  What is the story behind your YouTube channel? How did you get it off the ground? I started my YouTube channel in 2015. I wanted to document my fitness path while I was doing the two-month insanity programme to kick start my journey. I was also hoping to inspire someone out there. With this new fitness expedition, I started my natural hair journey and that is what made my channel pick up. Many girls at the time had decided to stop using chemicals on their hair just as I did.  What do you do apart from that? I worked as a project manager in construction. However, I recently left my job - after two and a half years - to grow my personal brand.  Can you describe your path to becoming a creative? I have always had a thing for creating, when I was younger I loved to draw and write. I was also very crafty. Then I discovered my love for creating content. I genuinely love creating and editing videos, and YouTube was the perfect platform for me to develop my skill.  What would you say your mission statement is? I don’t necessarily have one, but if I did, it would be to inspire as many young people as possible to be the best versions of themselves.  What would you say your greatest achievement is so far? That would be the moment I left my job to pursue my dreams.  Biggest challenge so far? How did you learn from it? Criticism about my field of work from society. The older generation still doesn’t quite understand the shift in the world today, and the importance of creating online content. I have learnt that you have to believe in what you are doing even when no one does.  How did you build your following on social media? By creating good content that resonates with my followers, and that is helpful in one way or another! And of course, interaction and approachability.  What have you learnt from influencing and being a creative so far? I’ve learnt the power of the digital space in this day and age. There’s such a large number of people consuming different content, in one form or the other, and on different platforms. This means that anyone who wants to be relevant in this age, either a business or a personality, has got to have some sort of online presence.  What does your job involve? How long does it take for a post to come up? Content creating is always harder than it looks. Coming up with posts, either video or photo, involves a lot of planning for location, the look and feel of the content, outfits, and you also have to think about what the content will make people feel. It’s always a ratio of about five bad shots to get one good shot and, sometimes, three video takes to find the perfect one.  What's your definition of a creative? I think a creative is someone who can think up an idea/concept and bring it to life in his/her own way. I would like to think that everyone is a creative.  Where do you draw your inspiration from? Everywhere, really.  What type of networking would you say has worked for you to enhance traffic to your channel? I am always interacting with my followers, as well as entering different collaborations with various online brands and businesses.  How do you manage your time in order to run your channel? I previously used to work on my channels over the weekends only, but now I have a time slot to manage all my platforms daily.  How would you want to improve yourself in the next year? I want to elevate the quality of content I am creating, expand my reach to an international market and grow my online platforms as well.  What motivates you to keep the channel running? I just absolutely love creating content that is helpful to my followers! It is amazing to get love and appreciation from people who watch my channel and learn about either life, hair, health, fitness or beauty.  What do you like doing in your spare time? I love working out, travelling, and spending time with the people I love.   QUICK FIRE 1. Morning, noon or night? Afternoon? Hahaha but if I had to pick I’d say night. 2. How do you like your steak cooked? Medium rare! 3. What was the last film you watched? Watched Ant Man & The wasp! Huge Marvel fan. 4. What’s your favourite place to watch TV? In bed!! 5. If you could live anywhere in the world, where would it be? Melbourne, Australia 6. What did you eat for breakfast? Oats and warm banana, some raisins and chia seeds 7. What is your favourite cuisine? Anything Italian 8. What foods do you dislike? I really don’t like snail! Tried it when I went to Nigeria! Also not a fan of very spicy food.   Halima Aden is a super model.