Umoja will take on Trailblazers in their opening second leg match of the Kenya Basketball Federation men’s Premier League at United States International University of Africa out door courts on Saturday from 4.30pm. Thirty-one Premier and lower tier matches are lined up in Nairobi, Nakuru, Kakamega and Eldoret as teams battle to end the first leg in respectable positions to enhance their charge for play-offs positions come the second leg. Umoja, who joined the Premier League this season, are top contenders to finish in top four. After having lost narrowly 60-63 to giants Ulinzi Warriors last weekend, Umoja are still placed fourth on the table standings with 14 points. Led by Kevin Sunguti, Nick Ogol and Gilbert Obiero, they defeated Trailblazers 61-50 in the first leg and will start as favourites to deny their opponents maximum four points. Trailblazers have so far garnered 12 points from two wins and eight losses which leaves their strong man Shem Ochuodho and Alex Oguso with the daunting task of rediscovering their winning formula against red-hot Umoja. Tomorrow sunday, Umoja will lock horns with Equity Bank while USIU-A Tigers to host fellow varsity students KCA-U. Thunder, who were beaten 72-63 by former champions Ulinzi Warriors last weekend, will entertain lowly rated World Hope at 4.30pm. Experienced point-guards Griffins Ligare and Abel Nson are expected to lead from the front to steer Thunder into victory. Thunder lie fifth on the 11-team table standings with 13 points after having won four matches and lost five. World Hope, who are newcomers in the top competition, are bottom on the standings with 11 points. They were beaten hands down 58-39 by KCA-U last weekend and whether coach George Namake’s side has worked hard on their weaknesses to upset Thunder remain to be seen. In women’s Premier League match, Storms will continue withl their battle to finish in top four positions when they lock horns with Zetech University. Storms beat Zetech 48-31 in the first leg to grab seventh position with 10 points. Storms, who will be spearheaded by international forward Mercy Wanyama and Melisa Akinyi, have won four matches and lost two. Zetech have won three matches and lost three. In the men’s Division One and Two league matches, Little Prince, who pipped Blazers 39-38 last weekend, will meet 4-Christ, Blazers to host MKU Thika, Terrorists to battle it out with Strathmore University while Nakuru Club to face hosts Africa Nazarene University. In Kakamega, Nebulas, who beat Woodley Knights 61-48 in Nairobi last weekend, will host Little Prince at Kakamega Police Canteen from 10am. Hosts Nakuru Club to meet men’s Division One league leaders Emyba at Menengai High School at 9am. FIXTURES USIU-A: Blazers v MKU Thika (9am), Neosasa v KAA (9am), Barclays Bank v Lions (10.30am), 4-Christ v Little Prince (10.30am), KCA-U v Kisii University (12pm), ANU v Kisumu Lady Bucks (12pm), Zetech University v Storms (1.30pm), Terrorists v Strathmore University (3pm), Woodley Knights v Upper Hill School (3pm), Trailblazers v Umoja (4.30pm), World Hope v Thunder (4.30pm). Eldoret: Eldonets v Zetech University (10am). Menengai High School: Egerton University v Dynamites (9am), Nakuru Club v Emyba (10.30am). Kakamega Police Canteen: Nebulas v Little Prince (10am). Sunday: USIU-A: KCA-U v Kisumu Lady Bucks (9am), Gladiators v Kisii University (9am), KAA v MKU Thika (10.30am), Upper Hill School v Blazers (10.30am), Zetech University v ANU (12pm), Footprints v Zetech University (12pm) Terrorists v Barclays Bank (1.30pm), Masaku Sparks v Equity Bank (1.30pm), Terrorists v Lions (3pm), Storms v Eagle Wings (3pm), Equity Bank v Umoja (4.30pm), KCA-U v USIU-A Tigers (4.30pm). Menengai High School: Egerton University v Gladiators (9am), Egerton University v Neosasa (10.30am), Nakuru Club v KDF Morans (12pm)  