A college owned by former chief pathologist Moses Njue was stopped from offering medical science and laboratory course because lecturers were not qualified, a Nyeri court was told on Monday. Two inspectors from the Kenya Medical Laboratory Technicians and Technologists Board said Kings Medical College offered the course illegally between 2016 and 2018. Ms Purity Kimathi and Mr Wilson Njeru, told the court that the school defied an October 11, 2016 closure notice. Ms Kimathi said the students taking the course had not met the minimum requirements. “We visited the school on January 29, 2018 as a follow-up on compliance of the notice and found that the students and their teachers were not qualified. The lecturers were not registered with the board,” Ms Kimathi said. NO BOOKS She added that the library, laboratory and other facilities did not meet the standards set by the board. “The laboratory was not well equipped while the library had no books. There was also a problem with glassware and space,” she said. Ms Kimathi added that students and a lecturer she identified as Lemuel Muriithi, and who also happens to be Dr Njue’s son, became hostile to the inspectors during the visit. “Mr Muriithi caused commotion and incited students for two hours. We hid and called police when they began throwing stones at us. He vanished and reappeared with his father at the police station in Kieni,” she said. A student was arrested for assaulting a police officer and biting his fingers. Mr Njeru said the college, through a judicial review application at the High Court, challenged the board’s decision to inspect it. PRODUCED CERTIFICATES However, the court ruled in favour of the regulatory board. Through his lawyer John Abwour, Dr Njue maintained that the college had been approved to offer the course. The lawyer produced letters and certificates of registration from Ministries of Education and Science and Technology dated June 17, 2004 and August 29, 2005 respectively. He said the college was also approved as an examination centre. The lawyer challenged the witnesses to prove to court that Mr Muriithi was a lecturer at the college.   Two closure notices were issued in 2016 and 2017 but the school failed to comply.