A legislator wants the Ministry of Education to reintroduce corporal punishment to curb the rising cases of indiscipline in schools. Runyenjes MP Eric Muchangi said cases of students either burning schools or beating up teachers would reduce if the ban on corporal punishment is lifted. Speaking at Urban Primary School in Embu County on Saturday during a Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) branch annual general meeting, the legislator urged education stakeholders to review some of the policies that undermine discipline in learning institutions. He attributed cases of burning of schools to lack of a deterrent measures to contain wayward students. SPARE THE ROD “Some teachers have been beaten up by their students. When I read my Bible, it tells me that if you spare the rod, you spoil the child,” said Mr Muchangi. “The current policy tells us to guide and counsel the students who know too well that even if they beat up a teacher, they will end up in a guidance and counselling office,” said Mr Muchangi. The legislator supported calls by Knut Secretary-General Wilson Sossion for the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) to stop the delocalisation of teachers as it was breaking up families and killing teachers’ morale. “Many families are collapsing because couples who have stayed together for long are now being pulled apart. Many are being sent to far places and are only seeing their partners once a month,” the legislator observed. DELOCALISATION Mr Sossion said delocalisation was a way of intimidating teachers and the TSC was only using national cohesion as a scapegoat. “TSC is saying that delocalisation of teachers is about cohesion, it is politicians who divided the country and not teachers. If you want to attain cohesion, heal the politics,” Mr Sossion said. “A school like Maranda Boys High School has been performing well and transferring the principal who has two years left to retire without any good reason doesn’t make sense. If a teacher is doing well in a school, let him stay,” he said.  