Outpouring of love for Russian team ***** On Sunday, over 24,000 Russian football fans turned up at Vorobyovy Gory in Moscow to meet their national team. The hosts reached the quarter-finals for the first time in the Soviet era, and there was outpouring of emotion as the fans greeted the team with thunderous applause and loud chants of “Rossiya” and “Spasibo” to mark the Sbornaya’s remarkable accomplishments at the home World Cup. “It’s a great honor for us. We are playing for our country with passion. We have proven that Russia is a football powerhouse. Thank you so much,” striker Artem Dzyuba’s voice thundered from the speakers. Union Jack proudly high at fans’ hotel *****Moscow did not host any of the four quarters, so fans here have been eagerly waiting for tomorrow’s semi-final. England fans have descended on Moscow en masse ahead of tomorrow’s semi-final against Croatia, and just like the coverage by the English press, most of the fans believe "Three Lions" will make a meal of Croatia. The fans are putting up at Yunost Hotel, a 10-minute walk to Luzhniki Stadium, venue of Wednesday’s match, and they have planted a giant version of the Union Jack outside the hotel to announce their presence. Most of the fans believe the trophy is returning to England for the first time since 1966. Cameras trained on biggest two cities *****With the World Cup taking place in Russia, it is fair to say that the county has the highest concentration of international journalists at the moment. A conservative estimate puts the number of photojournalists, print, television, radio, and online journalists covering the 2018 Fifa World Cup here at more than 2,000. Each of the 12 host stadiums in 11 Russian cities has a media centre for use by journalists. Moscow alone has two media centres located at Luzhniki Stadium and Spartak Stadium that can hold at least 700 journalists at any one time. Moscow and St Petersburg will be teeming with journalists for the semis. Media stranded as flights fully booked *****Since Sunday, flights between Moscow and Saint Petersburg have been fully booked, and so have high-speed trains. It takes one and a half hours to travel to Saint Petersburg by air, while a train takes eight hours to do the 714.1-kilometre trip. With return tickets having sold out at most airlines, it has been a tough balancing act for journalists travelling to Saint Petersburg to cover tonight’s semi-final match between France and Belgium that starts 9pm. Without a return air ticket or ticket for high-speed train from Saint Petersburg and left only with buses that take 14 hours to do the trip, one can’t make the return journey to Moscow in time for Wednesday’s England vs Croatia semi-final.  