A court was on Monday told that the handbag used to ferry Sh1.2 million to Nakuru businessman Julius Kimani's killers belonged to one of his employees. A witness in the murder case, Ms Dianarose Wanjiku, told the Nakuru court that her bag was used to carry the money. Ms Wanjiku, who was testifying before Justice Anthony Ndung’u, said her colleague borrowed the bag and used it to deliver the money from their workplace to the businessman’s killers. SUSPECTS Mr Kimani, who was the owner of Kimsnet Limited, was murdered on the night of December 1, 2017. Five suspects among them his wife Gladys Wambui have been charged in connection with his murder. Ms Wanjiku, who claimed to have been an employee of Kimsnet for one and a half years, said her workmate, Ms Jane Nyambura, borrowed the bag only to return it after 30 minutes. “We had opened the shop at around 9am. Jane asked me to assist her with my handbag. "Since I was serving a customer, I told her to pick it where I usually kept it. She returned it after 30 minutes but she never disclosed what she had used it for," Ms Wanjiku said. CONFESSION The witness said she later learnt that the bag was used to ferry the money. “It was after we were through with the burial of Mr Kimani when Ms Nyambura disclosed to me that she used my handbag to carry the Sh 1.2million,” Ms Wanjiku said. Ms Nyambura, also an employee of Kimsnet, testified earlier and told the court that her boss’s wife had instructed her to take the money to one of the accused persons — Mr Alex Muhonja. The handbag, which was tabled before the court, was positively identified by Ms Wanjiku. But her testimony was challenged by Mr Muhonja’s lawyer, Mr Ochang’ Ajigo. CASH DELIVERED Mr Ajigo said Ms Wanjiku’s statements were based on assumptions. “This witness wants the court to assume that it was her bag that was used to take the money to my client, yet she cannot confirm seeing the money or my client receiving it,” the lawyer said. The hearing will resume on September 26. Ms Nyambura said after she gained access into the office as directed by Ms Wambui, she confirmed the money and put it in a brown handbag. She put on a blue dust coat before taking the money to Mr Muhonja, who was waiting for her outside Equity Bank at Gate House building on Kenyatta Avenue. The company supplies nets, carpets and beddings to retailers in Nakuru Town. BOND REQUEST DECLINED Ms Wambui is charged alongside Ms Rahab Mukenye, Mr Muhonja, Mr James Mwaura and Mr Nicholas Mudegu. Ms Wambui has been in remand after the court denied her bond on grounds that she would interfere with the witnesses. The four others were released on Sh500,000 bond. Mr Kimani is said to have been abducted as he returned home from work at around midnight. MURDER PLOT His brothers discovered his body the following morning dumped at Nakuru South cemetery with a deep head wound. The businessman’s death is said to have been plotted by his wife, who according to the family lawyer, hired the killers. The hearing will resume on September 26.  