Deputy President William Ruto returns to the coast on Sunday for the ninth time since the March 9 truce between President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition leader Raila Odinga. Mr Ruto’s spokesman David Mugonyi said the DP would attend a fundraiser for the translation of the Bible to Giriama. It will be at Karisa Maitha grounds in Kilifi Town. Kilifi North MP Owen Baya (ODM) confirmed the visit. Mr Ruto's visit comes hot on the heels of last weekend’s Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford-Kenya Moses Wetang'ula's tours of Kwale and Kilifi counties respectively. COAST ALLIES The President has also made peace with Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho. Jubilee’s other critic, Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi, has been attending Mr Ruto’s functions. Mr Baya, Mr Ali Mbogo (Kisauni), Mr Suleiman Dori (Msambweni), Mr Benjamin Tayari (Kinango), Mr Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga), Ms Aisha Jumwa (Malindi) and Kilifi Woman Representative Gertrude Mbeyu have been accompanying the DP to his functions. Mr Joho’s allies, led by Changamwe MP Omar Mwinyi, have dismissed Mr Ruto’s visits, saying leaders following him "are enticed with petty projects as residents suffer". “You are given seven kilometres of roads and start singing about a person whose agenda you don't even know. We are stooping too low,” Mr Mwinyi said. COOPERATION Kanu chairman Gideon Moi has also been at the Coast and recently said he is ready to work with Mr Joho. Meanwhile, Mr Ruto on Friday urged Busia residents to work with the government. He was speaking at Kolanya Boys High School during a funds drive for the construction of three dormitories destroyed by fire in May. Busia is traditionally an opposition zone. Mr Ruto said the government would complete the projects started in the region. He however said goodwill and support from the grassroots would be important for the implementation of the projects. “The measure of good leadership is not how much you talk but how much you deliver to Kenyans. "We should be talking of how many kilometres of roads we have tarmacked, how many hospitals we have equipped, access to education and how many people we have connected to electricity," he said. ROADS He added that the number of projects initiated in the region showed the government's commitment in improving livelihoods. “We have set aside Sh280 million to equip the Alupe University College," he said. “Very soon, we will be launching the construction of the Malaba-Lwakhakha road. A contractor has already been given Sh135 million to complete the work. "I have instructed the Ministry of Roads and Infrastructure to terminate its contract with the company working on the Busia-Malaba road for delaying the project.”   MPs meet at the English Point Marina in Nyali at a gathering they termed as “private and confidential”.