The new directive by Chief Justice David Maraga to consolidate hearing of corruption cases in Nairobi is a major step in the war against the vice that threatens to wipe out all economic gains the country has made in years. Judiciary is a critical player in the campaign against graft. Yet as currently constituted, its structures have not been properly crafted to deal with this menace expeditiously and comprehensively. In the new directive, the cases will be tried at the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes court in Nairobi, which is a special-purpose vehicle to deal with this iniquity. As a specialised establishment, it is expected that the court has the resources and systems to deal with the cases thoroughly and quickly. FRUSTRATED So far, the public feels frustrated that corruption cases never run the full cycle and the culprits get punished. They take too long and sometimes at the instigation of the lawyers working in cahoots with judicial officers, they just fizzle out. Even in the best of situations, the cases drag when they are presented before the general courts where several other suits are handled and the schedules are so tight such that when the matters are finally dealt with, the impact is diminished. Second, the cases delay because the ordinary courts lack the structures to efficiently conclude them. TOO LONG Whatever the circumstance, the fact that the cases take too long is in itself an incentive to the corrupt; they are least worried about punishment because it never comes fast. Conversely, the public gets dispirited, lose interest and give up altogether on the crusade to end the crime. The corollary is true – fast and efficient disposal of the cases motivates the public to fight on. Notwithstanding this, the Chief Justice should move to the next level and establish more anti-corruption courts across the country to expedite trials. Centralising the cases in Nairobi should be temporary as it is not sustainable in the long run. The bottom line is that the Judiciary must play its part by establishing efficient structures to deal with corruption, guarantee quick disposal of cases and where necessary ensure restitution through sanctions and asset recovery.  