China boasts it doesn’t interfere in other countries’ internal affairs. At best the claim is in the realm of implausibility. Australia and New Zealand leaders have raised the question, “If the interference occurs here, why not in Africa?” BELT AND ROAD Two forms of interference exist. One is manipulating the media to, for example, shape public opinion and hence policy. That was the alleged case in Australia, which has a considerable ethnic-Chinese population and media outlets in Chinese language. The other is tied to the so-called “Belt and Road” initiative. It called for China to finance development of communication networks that will direct trade to and from China. In a speech in New Zealand where an academic has done substantial research on the operations of China’s United Front two weeks ago, former US Secretary of State, Hilary Clinton, addressed the issue. 1949 WORDS The Front is an arm of the Communist Party and spreads the party’s policies abroad. “In Australia and here in New Zealand experts are sounding the alarm about Chinese efforts to gain political power and influence policy decisions.” President Xi Jinping has described the Front as “a weapon.” For the record, there’s nothing wrong with any nation “selling” itself to others. The issue is intent. Late last year Radio New Zealand reported Australia’s Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull’s anger over China’s complaint the country’s espionage laws were directed at China. Responding and switching between English and Mandarin, Mr Turnbull referred to the 1949 founding of modern China’s words: “The Chinese people have stood up.” Well, he continued saying Australians are doing the same. EXTENDS LOANS What has China’s dealings with far away New Zealand got to do with Beijing’s activities in Africa? The buzz word in China’s dealing with African nations: “strategic partnership, political equality, mutual trust, economic win-win, cooperation and culture exchange." Nothing wrong there. There’s though a hidden danger. By and large, China doesn’t give grants. It extends loans, usually on terms more favourable than those from developed nations and multilateral organisations. SUBTLE WAY Considering China is very willing to finance mega projects—railways, dams and hydro-energy, repayments can be huge and eventually unpayable in cash. The net result, for example in Angola’s case, just send oil to China, to pay a $60 billion loan. Space here doesn’t allow a stroke by stroke narrative of projects China finances on the continent. The point is all of them involve local and national politics. It would be naïve to assume China stands at the corner watching its money flow. On the geopolitical scene, China will “call in debts. “We’ve been scratching your back,” so to speak, “it’s pay-back time.” Subtle ways of achieving that exists. Be warned! cmbitiru@hotmail.com  