The war against foreigners working in the country illegally is still on, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has said. The CS, who spoke in Nakuru on Tuesday, said the crackdown to weed out the foreigners has been intensified and those found to be working illegally will be deported. “We cannot continue allowing people who do not have proper documents (work permits) to run businesses  and do jobs which Kenyans can do. "The upsurge of illegal foreigners in the country is the reason behind unemployment in Kenya,” said Dr Matiang’i. The directive to weed out the illegal foreigners was issued last month after the government established that there are 34,000 expatriates working in Kenya. The CS spoke when he oversaw the destruction of illegal gambling machines at Gioto dumpsite in Nakuru County. Dr Matiang’i said the government has suspended importation of gambling machines. “The machines will not be allowed in the country and agencies, including the Kenya Revenue Authority, Kenya Bureau of Standards and Kenya Airports Authority are aware. We have alerted every relevant agency to make sure the machines do not leave the port of Mombasa to get to our children,” said Dr Matiang’i. The machines were confiscated by police in an operation aimed at eradicating the business that has contributed to school dropouts and rise in crime. Dr Matiang’i, who was accompanied by Rift Valley Regional Coordinator Mongo Chimwaga and Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui, also visited Nakuru GK Prison where he assured prisoners that the government was keen to improve the corrective facilities. The officer in charge of the prison Japheth Onchiri said one of the challenges the prison is facing is inadequate accommodation, which Dr Matiang’i said the government will address. “We will make sure we improve the correctional facilities and make sure prisoners acquire skills that will help them after they complete their sentences,” said the CS. He also said the ministry is already working with the Judiciary to ensure  that offenders get fair trials.   Some 2,000 foreign citizens issued with work permits.