An initiative has been started to prevent conflicts and extremism in Mombasa through peace clubs in schools. The government has been struggling to address radicalisation and crime at the port city that had scared away investors and hurt tourism. However, the National Cohesion and Integration Commission now wants to use peace clubs in schools to reach out to locals to avoid the vices. A workshop organised by NCIC was conducted on Friday at Tudor Day Secondary School to sensitise peace clubs patrons on establishment of strong and vibrant peace clubs. This would go a long way in creating awareness on the importance of peace in learning institutions. Out of the 44 public secondary schools, 38 sent representatives to attend the meeting to empower them on ways of ensuring peace. The workshop was attended by NCIC CEO Hassan Mohammed and vice-chair Irene Wanyoike. Coast coordinator Kimani Kibe, the county peace club coordinator Stephen Muinde, NCIC’s Zuena Abdulaziz, Mama Ngina Girls Principal Mwanahamisi Omar, Tudor Day Principal Peter Watoro, County Director of Education Peter Kairu and NCIC Caroline Gateru. Mr Mohamed hailed Devolution Principal Secretary Nelson Marwa for having ensured peace at the coast when he was the regional coordinator. Mr Mohammed challenged teachers and school principals to be "more creative, aggressive and committed" to peace building. Ms Omar and  Watoro asked principals to spearhead peace club activities. Mr Kairu told the patrons to extend the effects of the famous Handshake to learning institutions as a sign of peace. Mombasa peace clubs coordinator Stephen Muinde  promised to work hand in hand with all teachers and principals to enable students deal with life's challenges peacefully and become responsible citizens. National Amani clubs coordinator Kimani Kibe took the patrons through the guidelines in establishing the right structures to have strong peace clubs in schools. Among schools that attended were Mama Ngina Girls High School, Khamisi, Tudor Day,  Alfarsy, Shariff Nassir secondary schools and Changamwe among others. Teachers deliberated on activities that their schools can engage in so as to make the clubs more vibrant such as peace debates, walks,  peace gardens in schools, peace journals,  talking walls,  peace cultural competitions, drama festivals and community theatre. Mr Kairu said peace clubs will be reactivated in all public schools in Mombasa. "We want to facilitate and eliminate all forms of ethnic discrimination and proactively promote tolerance, understanding, acceptance of diversity, peaceful  coexistence and unity in schools through peace clubs," he said. Mr Muinde formerly at Matuga Girls High School was involved in Amani clubs activities through spreading peace messages using the Google Hangouts, a project by Twaweza communications. This involved writing of articles and exchange of ideas between schools such as Nairobi School and Arya Girls. A participant, Ms Elizabeth Bana from Changamwe said: "I am happy to be in this forum and looking forward to making the club in my school more vibrant in the school and the community at large." Ms Diana Mumbi of Khamisi Secondary, Cecilia Riziki (Khamisi secondary) and Mary Musyoka praised the initiative. On Saturday, NCIC will took the initiative at Kwale High School in Kwale County. .  