Kenyans and friends of Kenya must seize the moment to move the country to greatness. We have a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to do so. Only two others come to mind: At Independence and in 2002. In both cases, especially the latter, the opportunity was, sadly, squandered. Among its various achievements, Narc nonetheless gave the country a long-term plan, Vision 2030. Previously, we only had five-year plans that gathered dust on shelves. Sessional Paper No. 10 of 1965 and the District Focus for Rural Development came close but did not go far enough. Vision 2030, which has also influenced, and is aligned to, global and regional visions — the UN SDGs, AU’s Agenda 2030 and EAC’s Vision 2025 — anticipates middle income status for Kenya by 2030. Even with just over 10 years to go, this goal is achievable if certain conditions are right. After all, didn’t Singapore move from third- to first world in just 30 years? Other ‘miracle’ countries are walking that path: South Korea, Botswana, Mauritius and, closer to home, Rwanda. TRIBALISM Only three things stand between Kenya and that trajectory: Impunity, corruption and tribalism — all a result of a leadership deficit at all levels and in diverse sectors. Kenya cannot make the next big leap if these — call them ‘software’ — are not fixed. The two-digit annual growth anticipated by Vision 2030 is only possible with an inspiring, visionary and inclusive leadership able to rally all Kenyans around the cause. It would have to be leadership by deed, not words. As the SDGs aptly put it, “leaving no one behind” should be the rallying call. The converse, that we have had over the past 50 or so years, especially the past 10, spells only doom; 2007/08 was only a taste of it. At the climax of last year’s general election, the toxic ethnic relations reached unprecedented levels. I had not seen Kenyans so polarised. Even most of the so-called ‘moderates’ vanished into one ruthlessly opposing divide or other. The tribal hate was immeasurable. With it came destitution — “I would rather you shoot and kill me” if that’s what it takes to bring change. DESPERATION For once, hitherto simmering voices of secession were loud. One cannot fail to attribute the growing spate of homicides to that desperation and indignity. President Uhuru Kenyatta and Mr Raila Odinga don’t have many other opportunities to bequeath Kenya their legacies. Were the ‘Handshake Project’ was to backfire, consequences would be much direr. Whereas there were many Kenyans on both sides of the divide who did not care if civil war broke out, as it nearly did, those who have experienced such a situation in war-torn countries would advise against it. One, there is never a winner — one can’t rejoice in ruling over corpses. Two, it would take 10 to 15 years to end, if at all. This is why it is incumbent upon all people of goodwill to rally Kenya towards unity, justice, prosperity and greatness. We need not reinvent the wheel. A Vision 2030 retreat recently addressed the ‘Political Pillar’ — largely where the software to fix the country is domiciled. SESSIONAL PAPERS Many Kenyans might not recall that in 2012/13, the Cabinet, and ultimately Parliament, passed Sessional Papers 8 and 9 — on National Values, and Cohesion and Integration. They cover literally all the nine points in the ‘Handshake Agenda’ and recommend specific actions. But times have changed, and the consultations then may not have been inclusive and extensive. That is why there is a need for a rapid appraisal to establish what ails Kenya and its prescription and end-game. This is the only genuine and sustainable way to heal Kenya from the dark past and launch it onto a stellar growth trajectory. Dr Ochuodho is the convenor, Tushauriane WaKenya. shemochuodho@yahoo.com  