Many people believe that of the ‘Big Four’, President Uhuru Kenyatta holds universal health coverage (UHC) as the heart of the agenda. But there are 10 things the delivery woman for the project, Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki, must note if she is to meet his objectives. One, the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) still waits for Kenyans to go and sign up and its overheads are phenomenally high. In developing countries, State paid-for insurance is responsible for the achievement of UHC; in the developed world, tax funding meets a fifth of the expenses. Two, the government has picked four counties for end-to-end stress tests. However, the government must know how many citizens there are per county; so, carry out a census. RIGHT PERSONNEL Three, there must be enough hospitals and health centres with the right personnel and equipment. If the facilities — public, faith-based and private — are not well equipped, the undue pressure on referral hospitals will continue. Four, streamline private medical insurance — including the very strange habit of hospitals tapping into a patient’s NHIF before drawing from private insurance. And the idea that one needs NHIF to be seen in a hospital, when they have expensive private cover, is criminal. Five, track medicines from the import order, landing, storage at the Kenya Medical Supplies agency (Kemsa), dispatch to hospitals and prescription to a patient. The government is working on the fabled Single Source of Truth, which provides a record of everything and anything about a citizen or resident. TRACK PATIENTS That can be linked to health systems to track patients and keep records through the Hospital Management Integrated System (HMIS) and Integrated Picture Archiving and Communication System (Pacs) in all hospitals. Six, zoning of medical expertise. If we use the example of the expected Cuban specialists, we would ask the Health ministry to deploy a nephrologist in Nyamira, ontologist in Kisii and cardiologist in Narok. Why? Close proximity for movement. Seven, Ms Kariuki must kill the Kenyan doctors’ greed, sense of entitlement and penchant for working in big cities at the expense of rural areas, where they are needed most. I heard the doctors’ union, KMPDU, the other day say they need 2,000 doctors employed. Where are they? They should present immediately themselves to the governors of Isiolo, Mandera, Garissa, Marsabit, Wajir, Baringo, Turkana for hiring. DEFEAT MALARIA Eight, the government must aggressively implement a preventative strategy to ease the burden on health facilities and pay less for health in the long term. If we defeat malaria, we can drastically bring down hospital-related bills in Kakamega, Bungoma, Busia, Trans Nzoia, Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori and Kilifi. If we aggressively fight HIV/Aids infections, we can reduce medical costs, especially in Nairobi and Mombasa. With better investment in promotion of better, healthier lifestyles, we can significantly cut the cost of non-communicable ailments, like heart disease. Nine, the CS must work with her Education colleague Amina Mohamed to ensure that our referral hospitals are proper centres of excellence and schools of medicine are delinked from strikes. Get doctors to cover these hospitals. Kick out interns, if necessary. CORRUPTION And, ten, take the battle against corruption to the heart of the ministry. Streamline operations of hospitals. Remove the cartels in the pharmaceuticals industry. Let the citizen get good value for money. Automate services in all facilities. That would see Kenya move up the prosperity ranks, improving savings otherwise spent on medical bills and dealing a blow to extreme poverty if we get UHC right in the four and a half years left of President Kenyatta’s final term. Ms Nyanchama is a PhD student (industrial economics) at Wuhan University of Technology, China. priscillanyanchama@yahoo.com  