A section of parents at Lamu Boys Secondary School now want the school administration to seek a sorcerer's help to catch individuals responsible for dorm fires. Led by Mr Mohamed Shee Ali, the parents on Monday said they do not want such incidents to recur. "It’s high time that we moved away from the norm. The school must now bring in a sorcerer, a witchdoctor and an oath administrator. "That way this matter will be put to rest quickly and the culprits will be punished. Using police on such unruly students doesn’t work because they won’t talk," Mr Shee said on Monday. INDISCIPLINE Another parent, Ms Mariam Mohamed, said: "The students are exhibiting crude behaviours. They burn a dorm or any building, then police are called; then some are arrested and later released and the matter is forgotten until it recurs. "But this time round we want a change in tact. We are ready to invite witchdoctors here if the administration can allow. "They will be able to point out who the unruly ones are whether they like it or not. We can’t keep paying fines for destructions each year because of a few boys." DAMAGE On Thursday, the school was closed indefinitely after a fire razed another dormitory. That was the third incident in a week. The school board said property worth more than Sh2 million was lost in the latest inferno that happened on May 16. In the May 10 disaster, property worth over Sh500,000 was destroyed. A day later the students set the head boy’s cubicle on fire, destroying several beds and mattresses. PROBE On Thursday last week more than 10 students were questioned by police about the incidents. Earlier, 12 were suspended over the matter. Parents Teachers Association chairperson Feiswal Abdalla told the parents to be calm as the administration conducts its investigations. "We decided to close the school for investigations to be conducted. We will let the parents know our decisions and plan as a school board once we have a way forward. In the meantime we call for calm until investigations are over," Mr Abdalla said.   One student has been hospitalised while four others have been treated and discharged.