Former President Daniel Moi’s Press Secretary Lee Njiru has blamed the former Head of State’s personal secretary for his troubles. Mr Njiru said Mr John Lokorio has been frustrating him. While Mr Njiru is adamant that his contract with Mr Moi is valid until June 30, 2020, Mr Lokorio on Tuesday dismissed the claim, saying Mr Njiru, who served presidents Jomo Kenyatta and Moi, had retired on June 30, 2017. “As far as we are concerned, Mr Njiru has retired. His term ended in June last year after several contract extensions. The position he held has already been filled by Alex Kiprotich, whom Mr Njiru taught for a year, and then he left,” Mr Lokorio told the Nation on Tuesday. KEEPING GOVERNMENT VEHICLE The comments by Mr Lokorio were in response to a story carried by the Nation in which Mr Njiru was battling accusations of holding a government vehicle illegally. The accusations are contained in a police statement filed by Mr Peter Ng’etich, a government driver. Mr Njiru had produced a contract extension letter from former State House Comptroller Lawrence Lenayapa to back his case. On Tuesday, Mr Njiru claimed that since July 1, 2017, he has been denied his per diem and fuel for his official car as some operatives who want him out of the former President’s circle have colluded to frustrate him. “My detractors have devised ways of frustrating me. They even took away a car that I used to report to work at the Kabarnet Gardens in Nairobi,” Mr Njiru told the Nation. MOI'S RESIDENCE Mr Njiru said those who want him out have been instructing security personnel to block him from accessing Mr Moi’s residence. “But I sought assistance elsewhere. I am now allowed into the residence. I have been at work for the better part of this month,” he said. But when contacted, Mr Lokorio denied that Mr Njiru had been denied access to the home, but was quick to add that he was not required there every time as he was “no longer an employee”. He further denied frustrating Mr Njiru, saying they went for the government vehicle he is holding because “we did not have a good budget to run the former president’s office”. Mr Njiru has now threatened to sue the driver. “I have instructed my lawyer to sue Mr Ng’etich for defamation. This can best be sorted out in court,” said Mr Njiru.   Former Head of State’s press secretary accused of keeping a government vehicle illegally.