From the Windsor castle to far-flung continents, the nuptials of the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, Prince Harry and Meghan Markle, have become one of the most talked about subjects since Saturday when the couple tied the knot. As warm wishes and critiques continue flooding in from various parts of the world, some people are still stuck at what the former actress and philanthropist, Meghan Markle, will have to bid goodbye as the Duchess of Sussex.  How much would you be willing to give up to marry your partner? For the 36-year-old former “Suits” actress, joining the Royal family means giving up not just one but a list of things, including:  Acting career After working her way up, from guest spots and guests shows to seven years of being a regular in “Suits” as Rachel Zane, Meghan had to retire from her craft. Chances are, like the rest of the Royal members, she will only take part in philanthropic duties.  Going out in public alone Having “me” time, taking a stroll or heading out for a jog by herself will be a thing of the past for the American actress. Having joined the British Royal family, she will have to get used to being surrounded by security officials all the time.  Selfies The former US Ambassador to the United Kingdom, Matthew Barzun, told Hello magazine in 2014 that the Queen is not fond of selfies as she finds them “disconcerting” and “strange”. Meghan might have been used to taking selfies but she will have to learn to say no.  Social media In April 2017, the Duchess of Sussex shut down her website “The Ting” and since then, she hasn’t posted on her official Instagram page that had more than three million followers. In January 2018, she deleted all her social media accounts. Any update about her will now be shared on the Kensington Royal social media accounts.  Coloured or dark nail polish As a rule of the house, Meghan will now have to settle for au naturel nails or, on rare occasions, like her wedding day, nude polish. According to a UK-based magazine, coloured nail vanish is not part of the Royal etiquette.  Signing autographs Save for official events, members of the Royal family are not allowed to sign autographs for the public and Meghan is no exception to that rule.  Voting Although Meghan will attain British citizenship, she will likely not be allowed to take part in future UK elections. Although this is not prohibited by the law, it is considered unconstitutional for a Monarch to participate in an election.   A mix of British pomp and African-American culture, and a celebrity congregation.