There are no structures on compensation of trainees at the media production company where I am interning. I am happy to gain practical experience, but I also feel that the amount of work I do deserves to be rewarded. Would it be unprofessional to ask for a stipend?  It is positive that you have found an internship opportunity. Internship policies differ; with some organisations offering an internship stipend while others do not. Regardless of whether an organisation offers a stipend or not, internships often yield career value. They provide a doorway through which many individuals enter their professional careers in part through offering the chance to gain valuable work experience; which gives one competitive advantage in the search and readiness for jobs. Secondly, internships allow individuals to get acquainted with their chosen career field or industry. Another benefit of internships is the opportunity for interns to learn about themselves though the feedback they receive from supervisors and associates. Importantly too, interns are exposed to relationships with people who may play crucial roles in their careers such as future supervisors or connections to their first jobs. Internships also help to build confidence as they are safe career crucibles where mistakes can be expected and environments where interns can wrestle with real-world issues that do not form part of school syllabuses such as learning how to effectively relate with stakeholders in the working environment, a crucial ingredient in the recipe of developing a successful professional. Benefits are many. While it is normal to feel that you ought to be remunerated for the contribution you are making to the organisation, it is even more worthwhile to focus on the long term value you are likely to draw from your internship experience. What would you like to gain most from your internship? As you mull over whether or how to bring up the matter of a stipend, consider that the most valuable assets you will take with you from your internship will be in the currency of transferable experience and not in Kenya Shillings.   There is more to diversity besides the ethnic outlook in organisations.