Deputy President William Ruto has moved to reconcile wrangling Nandi County leaders whose rivalry has been threatening service delivery. The DP on Monday met Governor Stephen Sang and Senator Samson Cherargei in Nairobi. Though details of the two-hour meeting remain scanty, but the DP is said to have reprimanded the duo for engaging in a war of words instead of serving the people. CONFIRMED Photos doing rounds on social media shows the DP seated between Mr Cherargei and Mr Sang, who is seated left of the DP. All the leaders seem to be in a jovial mood. Yesterday, Senator Cherargei, who has been a thorn in the flesh of Governor Sang’s administration, confirmed that the meeting took place. “But this will not in any way affect my oversight role. For now, things stand the way they are until the issues we’ve raised are addressed by the county government,” Senator Cherargei told the Nation on phone. On Sunday, Mr Sang hinted at working with the senator in a bid to boost service delivery to the residents. OVERSIGHT “Since President Uhuru Kenyatta agreed to work with Nasa leader Raila Odinga, political temperatures in the country have gone down. We as Nandi leaders have also agreed to work together and focus more on development matters affecting the county,” said Mr Sang. The governor called on members of the county assembly and the senator to play their oversight roles objectively. “I want the senator and MCAs to do their work for oversight without fear and I will not protect any of my officers found engaging in corruption as I want to transform the county to the next level,” said Governor Sang. 18 LORRIES The senator and the governor promised to rally the local community into supporting DP Ruto against those who are fronting Baringo Senator Gideon Moi for presidency in 2022. Since taking office, the governor and the senator have differed over the management of the affairs in the county. Senator Cherargei has accused Governor Sang of flouting tendering procures in the purchase of 18 Lorries at Sh15 million and hiring of staff from outside the county. “It is unfortunate that corruption is taking root in the county especially in awarding of tenders and hiring of staff denying the locals the much needed quality services,” said Senator Cherargei recently. “Hiring of staff at the county government is characterised by discrimination. It is the well-connected who are given jobs while qualified locals are left out,” claimed Mr Cherargei. DISCRIMINATION But Governor Sang has defended himself, saying the Lorries were bought under competitive bidding following an agreement between the county and the national government. He said the lorries, 10 Paw and eight Tata, were purchased at Sh8.5 million and Sh7.1 million each, respectively. According to Governor Sang the devolved unit bought new road machinery which included a backhoe at Sh8.5 million, excavator at Sh25.9 million and loader at Sh15.14 million. He has also denied claims of discrimination in hiring of staff noting that 30 percent of the jobs are allocated to minority groups and that no outsiders have been employed at the expense of the locals.  