The Directorate of Criminal Investigations on Tuesday interrogated the Kenya Bureau of Standards (Kebs) chief executive and his anti-counterfeit agency counterpart over suspicions that the two agencies are complicit in the dumping of illegal sugar. Some employees of two government agencies are also said to be tipping off businessmen involved in the production and sale of contraband and counterfeit goods. Earlier this month, the agencies were involved in the dumping of 400 tonnes of contraband sugar valued at Sh38 million into Indian Ocean. The sugar, which was in 16 containers, had been declared as machine parts, when it was seized in February 2016. INLAND CONTAINER DEPOT The questioning of Kebs managing director Charles Ongwae and the anti-counterfeit agency’s Elema Halake, who are expected back at DCI Wednesday, came just hours after a police raid at an inland container depot in Embakasi, Nairobi. It was conducted in conjunction with Kenya Revenue Authority officials. Sources at the DCI stated that the two directors were also required to give information about people selling and producing counterfeit tobacco. DCI officers earlier this week confiscated Kebs stickers believed to be used by illegal exporters of goods. Officers from the National Campaign Against Drug Abuse, the National Environment Management Authority, the National Police Service, KRA, anti-counterfeit agency and Kebs have over the past two months been cracking down on illicit trade and contraband in a campaign against tax evasion and smuggling. ROOFING MATERIALS During Tuesday’s raid, the multi-agency team seized coated iron roofing materials, nails and stone paints after they were found to have been imported illegally. In a separate raid, the team seized more than 200 six- and 13kg cooking gas cylinders at an illegal filling plant at  Tigoni in Kiambu. The owner reportedly escaped and police are looking for him. Deputy Head of Public Service Wanyama Musiambo, who led the crackdown, said four other go-downs without valid documents had been sealed off. COUNTERFEIT SHOES One had counterfeit shoes valued at Sh32 million. “We have found illicit items, others are substandard and there are no documents to indicate that the owners have been paying taxes,” said Mr Musiambo. “We are sending a warning to everybody involved that their days are numbered.” He said contraband posed unfair competition in the market as they were sold at relatively lower prices compared to genuine goods.   Sweetener had been smuggled into Kenya and grain declared unfit for consumption.