The politics of this country is in a state of flux, and few people seem to have any idea what to expect next. However, this is not saying too much because always we seem to lurch from one crisis of expectation to another, and speculation invariably precedes fact. Nevertheless, few could have foretold the kind of surprise that President Uhuru Kenyatta unleashed on Kenyans during his State of the Nation address. His humility in apologising for anything he may have said or done to divide the nation during the 2017 campaigns was not only touching, but also charming. Incidentally, may be it is time the players in the opposite camp did the same thing, with the singular aim of bringing about the beginning of the healing process. PROMISES The filth spewed out during the campaign was never one-sided. However, this may not be as important as the fact that the President’s unprecedented initiative heralds a new start and promises changes in governance, which he and Mr Odinga sealed with a handshake on March 9. The rapprochement between the two leaders generated celebration and consternation in equal measure among their respective diehard supporters. Those who thrive in discord in either camp were disconcerted by the new-found amity for they were deprived of their pet hates and are now at a loss as who to cut down to size with ridicule and poisonous invective. Such fellows can best be described as orphans of the handshake. SECESSION Yet they should not be ignored, for they can easily spoil the party and return the country to its inglorious past. Nevertheless, they must not be allowed to prevail. The next course of action is the call for a referendum which is increasingly becoming rowdy. It is clear some people are supporting this call with a singular aim in mind — to create executive positions for their own in the name of inclusion. They too must not be allowed to prevail. There are many reasons why the Constitution should be reviewed, for although it was hailed as the most progressive of the kind this side of the 21st Century, it left many gaping holes as became evident last year. The country still remained divided to the extent that one half started talking secession. My opinion is that if, indeed, there must be a referendum to bring back sanity to this country’s politics, it should have little bearing on the 2022 presidential succession four- and-a-half years away. There is a sense in which those seeing the clamour as a direct attempt to undercut the Deputy President’s ambition could be right. INCUMBENCY When you contemplate a Bill, which seeks to take away an elected President’s executive powers and vest them in an executive Prime Minister elected by Parliament, then you are actually suggesting a fundamental change just a few months after a very contentious election. That is not a wise idea, for it actually defeats the whole purpose of the newfound concord. Even more ridiculous are the games being played by a few self-assigned king-makers to roil the waters by misusing the President’s name in the guise of fighting for his future. The asinine suggestion by Cotu supremo Francis Atwoli to tweak the Supreme Law so that President Kenyatta can continue playing a yet undefined executive role in politics after he leaves office should be dismissed with contempt. This is not to indicate the President does not deserve recognition for the job he has already done, but should the idea gain traction, the inevitable uproar ensuing will unravel everything he tries to do in the last four years of his incumbency. Let it rest, Mr Atwoli. Four years is a very long time in politics. *** It was quite disheartening to see a miserable group of poor Kenyans hurdling in the cold complaining their shanties in Lang’ata had been demolished and they had no idea what to do next. Though they had been given ample warning to demolish the structures under power lines and ignored it claiming they had nowhere else to go, the evictions were quite inhuman considering the floods wreaking havoc in the city and elsewhere. Couldn’t the deadline have been extended until the weather improved? Can you imagine a family with young children been kicked out in the rain? Poverty is not a choice, nor is it a crime ... except, maybe, in Kenya. andrewngwiri@gmail.com  