Kenya’s plan to bridge the skills gap in the rapidly evolving railway sector is slowly gaining steam as more students take-up China-funded scholarships to study courses related to the mode of transport. The launch of operations on the 480-kilometre Nairobi-Mombasa standard gauge railway (SGR) last year has necessitated the need to train more personnel to continue sustainably after the foreign contractors depart. Also, technology transfer is one of the critical elements of the deals signed by Kenya and the Chinese based companies building major infrastructural projects in the country including SGR Phase 2A from Nairobi to Naivasha. Last week, the third batch of 40 Kenyan youth left for China’s Jiatong University to study under the China Road and Bridge Corporation (CRBC) scholarship. The first group of 25 Kenyans took up the course in 2016 and another 35 last year. They are studying among other courses, traffic and transportation management, telecommunications control engineering, locomotive and rolling stock engineering and signalling engineering. According to Transport and Infrastructure Cabinet Secretary James Macharia, more partnerships by the government are on course including the Sh1 billion construction and equipping of a business school at the Railways Training Institute. Flagship projects The government intends to make the institution the main SGR technology training in the region and under its expanded mandate, it will be reformed into a rail training under the Northern Corridor Intregration projects for different cadres of qualified personnel to key flagship infrastructure projects. Mr Macharia said capacity building is a priority for government in realising the four economic pillars for the next five years and beyond. “Kenya will have a pool of expertise that has been adequately tooled to not only operate the critical pieces of infrastructure, but also to maintain and repair it. At the same time, cooperation with RTI fostered over 1,200 Kenyan technicians for the SGR operation,” CS Macharia said during a send-off for the beneficiaries. The government intends to have atleast 18 passenger and freight trains by end of 2019 and, therefore, the need to have more local experts to manage the SGR. “By end of June our plan is to have six trains, by end of December we intend to have 12 trains, and by end of December 2018, we will be having 18 trains to help boost business growth,” Mr Macharia said. Seven counties Currently, Kenya Railways operates four trains from one in May 2017 going to Mombasa and back. The trains connect at least seven counties between Nairobi and Mombasa cities. Kenya also got a boost after global shipping company Maersk Shipping Line East Africa committed to transport its cargo from the Port of Mombasa to the Inland Container Deport in Nairobi through SGR thereby increasing freight services. “We need to increase the capacity to develop the entire railway systems,” he said. China has become Kenya’s largest trading partner, investor and contractor and their firms have invested billions of shillings in sectors such as manufacturing, housing and agriculture. According to Kenya China Economic and Trade Association (KCETA) chairperson Zhang Haifeng, if properly guided, investment in railway training can help boost the Big Four Agenda for Kenya. Mr Zhang encouraged Chinese manufacturers to work in partnership with local businesses to transfer technology, so as to help growth of the local manufacturing sector.  