Lillian Mbogo Omollo, Public Service and Youth Development PS Ms Omollo the principal secretary having been appointed in November 2015 following the exit of Peter Mangiti. She would be required to take administrative responsibility for fraudulent transactions executed on her watch. Her predecessor Mr Mangiti was forced to resign after being accused of authorising questionable payments to suppliers. Mr Mangiti was later acquitted alongside 22 others in one of the cases. Ms Omollo stepped aside on May 18 to allow police conclude investigations into the alleged loss of Sh9 billion at the National Youth Service.   The PS denied the funds were stolen when she appeared before the National Assembly's Public Accounts Committee on Friday. Richard Ndubai, NYS Director-General Mr Ndubai was sworn-in at State House on January 19, 2016, taking over from Dr Nelson Githinji who left the NYS unceremoniously. It is during the tenure of Mr Githinji that a scandal that involved loss of Sh791 million was exposed. Mr Ndubai stepped aside on the same day with Ms Omollo to allow police conclude investigations over the alleged loss of funds at the NYS. But he wondered how Sh9 billion could have been siphoned out without raising red flags.   Mr Ndubai holds a Masters in Public Administration from Harvard University and a Bachelor of Commerce, Accounting from the University of Nairobi. Ann Wambere Ngirita, NYS supplier The woman allegedly did not supply anything to the NYS. Ms Ngirita sat her Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education examination in 2008 Her dealings with the NYS seem to have catapulted her to financial stardom that changed her life and that of her family. She has been described as an air supplier to NYS. She has never tendered to supply goods and services to the government. She does not have an office either. All the 30-year-old did was walk to NYS headquarters and request a procurement officer to allow her to supply goods.   On paper, she was supposed to supply foodstuff, stationery, hammers and firewood. Nevertheless, she received Sh59 million money in an account held by her company – Annwaw Investment. Lucy Wambui Ngirita, Wambere's mother Mrs Ngirita is the mother of Ann Wambere Ngirita. She owns two firms – Waluco and Ngiwaco Investments – which are among 10 companies whose directors were summoned by detectives last week in connection to the NYS scandal. Ann said she mandated her mother to operate one of her bank accounts linked to the scandal. The companies whose directors were summoned by the DCI are Firstling Supplies Ltd, Kalabash Food Supplies, Kunjiwa Enterprise, ArkRoad, Ersatz, Ameri Traders, Jerrycathy, Annwaw, Ngiwaco and Njewanga.  More to follow...   DPP Noordin Haji recommends immediate prosecution of all suspects named in NYS financial scandal.