A father is a teacher, an inspiration, a warm touch, a loving presence and Miriam Kihara, 35, lacks enough words to celebrate her father James Kihara, 85. “From the time my dad was 18 years he became responsible for his entire family. During the State of Emergency in 1952 when he was 19 years old, he was taken to prison, humiliated and tortured. His hair was pulled out, leaving him with painful wounds on his head that took more than three years to completely heal and for his hair to grow again,” Miriam says. In 1957, James was released and continued fighting for his country. He was detained for another two years, but he still fought for independence. RESPONSIBLE After he served his prison term, he returned home to find that his father had died. Being the first child among his five siblings and with a jobless mother, James had to take up the responsibility of a breadwinner and cared for his 10 children and his siblings. He got a job as a camera man to provide for his family. He later joined a jockey club where he was earning Sh60 a month. James saved enough to buy a bicycle to enable him commute to work, and when he was free he would hawk potatoes from Silibwet to Subukia. When James’s first born finished his CPE exam, he sold his bicycle so he could pay his son’s high school fees. He was a fighter, and he took up odd jobs or the sake of his big family. He never wanted any of his children to drop out of school due to lack of fees. “Later my dad relocated to Nairobi, still in Jockey Club, and he was promoted as a trainer and at least the salary increased by Sh20, and he managed to buy three acres of land in Nyahururu and two sheep,” Miriam says.   By that time, some of his sons were mature and working and helped him settle some expenses, but he did not fully depend on them. He continued working hard to improve his family’s life. During his free time, he began going to Gikomba Market to buy clothes for resale. “He would send the clothes to mum to sell back at home and also went to jua kali to make sufurias that he sold,” Miriam says. HIS SACRIFICE One time, during his job as a trainer, James fell down while riding a horse and lost all his teeth. They were later replaced and he had to put on dental braces for some time. But he still continued working, saying he was doing it because he loved his family. James’s siblings and children are all grown up now and have their own families, while others have passed on. But they all went through his hands and every one of them was taken to school. “My father is over 80 years old now. Though we have the best we can give, he's still strong and likes to do things for himself. He will always still cook for us when he's free, milk his cows and he never bothers anyone. He is an inspiration,” Miriam adds. “I am proud to be the child of such a father who does not have an equal in this world; he is so great, so good and so faultless.” James is a well-respected man in his community, and with his age and experience comes wisdom. Many people consult him on a day-to-day basis. His wife Ruth says he is her best friend and a gift from God. Miriam, their youngest child, says she has every reason to celebrate her father for his hard work and sacrifices. “Happy Father’s Day. I will forever celebrate you for the hero you are, not just to me but to all Kenyan citizens,” she says. ***  What would you like your dad to know this Father’s Day? Can you say it in 800 words? Email: lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com   He put people before profits.