Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Echesa appointed a Cricket Kenya Management Committee on April 4 chaired by Harpar Singh Sehmi to run Kenyan cricket on a caretaker basis following the resignation of Cricket Kenya chairperson Jackie Janmohamed on February 17. David Obuya is the secretary of the management committee, and Karan Kaul the treasurer. The seven committee members are Walter Trenk, Edward Tito, Tariq Iqbal, Amolle Asiko, Tom Tikolo, Sukhban Singh and Rajesh Patel. The committee was given 90 days to come up with an all-inclusive constitution and to make the federation compliant with the Sports Act. On coming on board, the committee renewed the contracts of all the national team players for six months and appointed former national team captain, Maurice Odumbe, as interim national team coach and named Lameck Onyango, who had been women’s team coach, his assistant. Odumbe’s first assignment with the national team is to prepare Kenya’s squad for the Eastern sub-Africa World Twenty20 Qualifier, Kigali, Rwanda from July 7-14. Four teams - Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania and hosts Rwanda - will fight it out for the two slots reserved for the group in Africa ICC World Twenty20 qualifiers. Both Janmohamed and the federation’s director of development AbhijeetRaja Sarkar handed in their resignation letters to Cricket Kenya’s general manager during a board meeting at the Ruaraka Sports Club on February 17. The resignation of the duo left in office  two elected board members - vice-chairman Sehmi and treasurer Kaul. When Sehmi called a special general meeting on March 17 to fill up the two positions, CK affiliates - Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association, Coast Cricket Association and Rift Valley Cricket Association - refused to play ball, putting CK in a crisis. Former national players, Kennedy Obuya, David Obuya, Edward Tito, Tariq Iqbal and secretary of Kenya Cricket Umpires and Scorers Association, Walter Trenk and others formed a stakeholders group. The stakeholders group met Echesa and the Sports Registrar, and both Sehmi and Kaul were invited to CK’s next meeting on April 4. Three Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association officials Tom Tikolo, Singh and Patel also attended the meeting.   Before the free-fall, Kenya became the only non Test-playing country to reach the World Cup semi-final in 2003.