LOS ANGELES "We got you" and "it is long overdue": these were just some of the first reactions to news Friday that disgraced Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein was arrested and charged with rape and a sex crime.  The accusers "We got you, Harvey Weinstein, we got you." -- Actress Rose McGowan, who accuses Weinstein of rape  "Today Harvey Weinstein will take his first step on his inevitable descent to hell. We, the women, finally have real hope for justice." -- Italian actress Asia Argento, who says Weinstein raped her at the Cannes film festival  "Sending love to all my sisters today who stood up against a monster... so many emotions... I am proud of and grateful to you all."  -- Mira Sorvino, who alleges Weinstein sexually harassed her and destroyed her reputation and career  The campaigners "Harvey Weinstein shattered the lives of an untold number of women. We stand with them, and remain in solidarity with women everywhere who have faced unsafe and abusive workplaces. We look forward to seeing justice prevail." -- The Time's Up movement against sexual misconduct in the workplace, which was founded in the wake of the Weinstein scandal  "This moves from the court of public opinion into an actual courtroom. That is super cathartic for a bunch of the survivors, or even survivors who are not necessarily victimized by him." -- Tarana Burke, founder of the #MeToo movement against sexual violence, to Variety magazine  The lawyers "We intend to move very quickly to dismiss these charges. We believe that they are constitutionally flawed. We believe that they are not factually supported by the evidence and we believe that at the end of the process Mr. Weinstein will be exonerated." -- Benjamin Brafman, Weinstein's defence attorney, to reporters outside court in New York  "It is long overdue for him to be required to face the bar of justice, but that day has finally come." -- Gloria Allred, an attorney specializing in representing sexual assault victims.   His career went down in flames last October over sexual abuse allegations.