“If I were a boy/I think I could understand/How it feels to love a girl/I swear I’d be a better man/I’d listen to her/’Cause I know how it hurts/When you lose the one you wanted/’Cause he’s taken you for granted/And everything you had got destroyed” Beyonce Knowles  During a recent conversation with some gentlemen, they asked me to write something about the boy child on learning what I do. Something sensible, I suppose, even though I have no idea what it is like to be a boy. What should I write? I wanted to know. “Tell mothers to stop coddling their sons!” one of the men offered. “You are doing a good job with your daughters,” they added, “But who are those girls going to get married to?” It pained them, they opined, to see weak, lazy, irresponsible young men whose greatest achievement were the scores on their video games. Men who were being shielded behind large skirts by over protective mothers. Mothers who rushed to school to tell off teachers when junior didn’t complete his homework. Mothers who took in the laundry of grown up men. Mothers who gave their daughters-in-law a difficult time for not cooking for and cleaning after their sons. As a mother of a son, I had to admit they did have a point. I thought of the many times I demanded more of my daughters while the said boy child lazed in front of the television. I remembered that I had made excuses for him when he showed a lack of maturity because “boys mature later”. PARENTING I was worried about the boys who hang around my daughters and what they might do to their virtue but didn’t worry as much about my son. After all, boys do not get pregnant. If I was honest with myself, I had employed double standards in parenting. So yes, the gentlemen did have a point. What could I do? For one, I needed to recognise that boys were designed to be tougher than girls. They were physically bigger, hairier, had louder voices and more stamina. They were designed to take on more. So how about giving them the same share of household chores, if not more than their sisters? How about expecting them to do the heavy lifting around the home, school and community? How about expecting them to live to a higher standard? To bring in good grades, maintain curfew and be responsible? How about replacing our mantra of “boys will be boys” with “boys must be men”? How different would we raise our boys if we looked at them through the lens of a future father, husband, employer or citizen? Sadly, too many of us are raising bums and hoping that something magical will happen when they turn 18. We hope they will get a dose of responsibility injected into them when they get their ID cards. Only to discover that 18, is usually 18 years too late to turn a boy into a man. INFLUENCE However, while mothers must carry their share of the blame, there is another side to this narrative. One we raised with the gentlemen. “Where are the men who are supposed to train the boy child?” I asked. The reality is that it is easy to blame women for everything that is wrong with our boys when the only ones who can authentically teach a boy what it means to be a man, is another man. Mothers can theoretically influence the young men in their lives but that teaching lacks personal experience. The fathers, brothers, uncles and grandparents who would make excellent trainers are missing in action. Perhaps they were wounded in action, and are still grappling with the question of what it means to be a man in today’s society with its shifting values and yardsticks. Usually, they are found in bars watching soccer games, in the offices putting in long hours or at home, channel surfing in front of the television. One woman complained that it was left to her to take her son for circumcision, get his haircut done and talk to him about girls. And so while the mothers are over-compensating for absentee fathers or uncles in the best way they know how, the boy child is the silent victim. If we don’t arrest things right now, society will suffer for our sins of omission and commission.  carole@carolemandi.com   “No coward soul is mine. No trembler in the world’s storm troubled sphere” Emily Bronte