Pharell Williams dances clumsily because he is happy. His song is titled “Happy”. I, Tom Osanjo, I am enjoying every moment of supporting Gor Mahia, because I am happy. And why am I happy? Because I can dance clumsily along every street clad in my green jersey because Gor Mahia makes me happy. When Everton wanted to play Gor Mahia, we needed only to beat some local club called AFC Leopards, and we did it….then Wayne Rooney came along and had a taste of K’Ogalo. Now, when Hull City made a wish to play the great K’Ogalo, we requested them to play AFC Leopards to gain the experience of playing us….. Our sponsors decided we play Ingwe instead before the Hull side could make the trip….we once again beat our noisy relatives. But that is beside the point. I want to appreciate what our sponsors SportPesa are doing. Many players, not only in Kenya and Africa but in some nations in South America would die for an opportunity to play an English club, SportPesa has given Gor Mahia that chance. Rooney is by far one of the best football talents to have come from the United Kingdom, leave alone England, yet our very own Haroun Shakava and Musa Mohammed had an opportunity to man mark him and they did it well. In a few days, Gor Mahia players will get the chance to play Hull City. Forget the fact the club is playing in the lower division in English football, one cannot compare them to the clubs Gor Mahia is facing in the Caf Confederation Cup. The experience Gor Mahia players is going to gain from the one off match is very vital and thanks to SportPesa, our sponsors. Gor Mahia players will live to remember that experience. The challenge is to other corporates, please take the cue from SportPesa and help build our game. It is quite unfortunate that some clubs are facing a bleak future because of lack of sponsorship. I am happy SportPesa decided to come back to sponsor both Gor Mahia, the love of my life, and AFC Leopards. At least the two clubs can now sort their issues, pay players, and at the same time stabilize their internal affairs. I call upon corporates and parastatals to come and partner with our clubs. And I close by saying I am happy. Happy week to all who love football.   Zapata led the boys to a goalless draw against Chemelil Sugar.