Perhaps one of the most transformative socio-economic initiatives ever initiated by the Government of Kenya is the one enabling the youth, women and persons with disabilities to access at least 30 per cent of government procurement opportunities. Introduced during the Jubilee government’s first tenure, Access to Government Procurement Opportunities (AGPO) is one of those programmes that should be celebrated for removing barriers, changing attitudes and reinforcing the principles of tolerance and respect for the marginalised sections of our society, in line with the basic constitutional principles articulated in the Bill of Rights. In his second and final term in office, President Uhuru Kenyatta has picked out manufacturing, universal healthcare, affordable housing and food security — collectively known as the ‘Big Four’ agenda — as his focus areas until 2022. PUBLIC TENDERS Besides being facilitated to secure public tenders, for the youth to be fully engaged in these pillars of the economy, they have to be equipped with the requisite skills. Kenya Pipeline Company (KPC), a State corporation that deals in petroleum products, has, over the past two years, trained more than 2,000 youth, women and persons with disabilities (PWDs) on how to access the government procurement opportunities in countrywide sensitisation forums. These capacity building forums are critical. First, when weaker sections of society are accorded opportunities for business and growth, that is a sure way of laying a firm foundation for fighting poverty. Enabling them to do business with government and hence put food on the table will improve the living conditions of the country’s most vulnerable populations. SENSATION DRIVES Secondly, at the macro-economic level, the sensitisation drives will, ultimately, drive social change and increase accessibility and equity in other sectors of the society. This training will, therefore, create smooth avenues for the realisation of the President’s plan, whose main agenda is to improve the lives of millions of Kenyans. The new generation of ethical business people thus created will awaken in them a new set of aspirations to enable them to contribute significantly to the economics and politics of the country. As the countrywide sensitisation forums continue to give fresh hope to these disadvantaged bidders for government tenders, it is necessary to observe that the transformative impact of this policy on the targeted groups — youth, women and PWDs — will live for generations to come. Key learning points from this training are not only applicable to KPC but also other government agencies and county governments. But what is it that these groups actually learn? DEMISTIFY PUBLIC PROCUREMENT The content of these forums is creatively designed to demystify public procurement, which is perceived to be long and laborious. The trainees are actually taken through the stages of public procurement and what range of business opportunities are available in KPC. They are also enlightened on common mistakes and challenges faced by bidders while participating in the public tendering. Success stories and testimonials from every group will be shared to reinforce the message of hope for the bidders. The impact of these forums has been incredible. About five years ago, before the awareness efforts began, the uptake of the AGPO programme in KPC was a paltry Sh85 million but this year, over Sh1.2 billion has already been taken up by these groups to supply various goods and services to the company. To make the programme more effective, KPC has roped in the National Treasury, who are the custodians of AGPO, and the National Council for Persons With Disability (NCPWD) to offer critical content to the bidders on not only how the programme works but also the best way to package tender documents to ensure successful bidding. FINANCIAL SUPPORT Various financial institutions have also been engaged since last year to showcase their products with the intention of providing financial support to these groups as they embark on doing business with government. From the foregoing, it is evident that the AGPO initiative has the potential to bring out the wealth, strength and confidence of our country. It has what it takes to bring out Kenya’s much-unrealised potential and help to set our country on a bold new course. If there is a policy that will enable Kenya to take a seat at the table of prosperity, then it is AGPO — because it will address unemployment among our youth while creating the next generation of Kenyan entrepreneurs. Mr Cheruiyot is the general manager in charge of supply chain, Kenya Pipeline Company (KPC). gmsc@kpc.co.ke  