Q: I am a stressed student aged 22. I was forced to study a course that I do not have interest nor passion for, an electrician technical course. I am more interested in pursuing a career in music or venture into makeup industry, but the courses are more expensive. I am getting poor grades and I don’t know what to do since I don’t want to disappoint my guardian who has already spent a lot of money on my course. What should I do?  Start by having a positive outlook to life. You are lucky at least you have a guardian who is willing to educate you. It is a starting point and a foundation to build on in future when your fortunes change, since they will. The technical course will equip you with skills and competencies to either pursue formal employment or venture into your own business. It is a fairly sought-after skill with the explosion of real estate in the country. There is a scarcity of technical skill in the country especially at Diploma level since most students are focused on joining the university to pursue courses that will eventually prepare them for “white collar jobs”. Therefore, look at this opportunity as one that gives you a competitive advantage over your peers. The dismal performance is due to your dissatisfaction with the choice of course and your lack of interest in it. This can be reversed if you convince yourself that this course will be “another feather in your cap’’. Also, engage your guardian and understand why they chose the course for you since this might give you more reason to embrace it and excel. I understand that passion is very critical in career choice, but for now, accept what you are being offered and use it as a stepping stone to the course you are passionate about. When you start earning income, you will be free to pursue a course of your choice. Sometimes, you might also perceive that a profession is lucrative and interesting before you understand it well. It helps to spend time with people in the said profession so as to make an informed decision. However, if you are completely unable to focus on the same and improve your grades, engage your guardian either directly or through a trusted friend so as to weigh the options of changing the course to one of your interest. It would be unfortunate for your guardian to spend money and you waste your precious time then fail to graduate due to dismal performance.    I think I made a hasty decision. Can one negotiate a job offer after accepting it?