A few hours after Meghan Markle’s wedding to Prince Harry, her profile was added to the British royal family website. While the profile is written in subsections that are rather brief and to the point, the play down on her career journey doesn’t seem to sit well with many of her fans. Part of her account’s introduction reads that the Duchess of Sussex devotes her time to supporting a number of charities and organisations. It goes on to briefly talk about her background, education, career and charity work, with an emphasis on her humanitarian work and less on her career as an actress. While it is understandable to some because the Royal family is more particular about charitable service, some of her disappointed followers argue that her determination and persistence in the acting industry should have been given more mention that just a few lines. Before her rise to stardom as the leading actress in the series “Suits”, she once held a “briefcase girl” job. CHARITY WORK “After university, Her Royal Highness worked as an actress, appearing in film and television. She most notably played the role of Rachel Zane on the series ‘Suits’ for seven seasons, completing over 100 episodes,” the précis attribute reads. However, unbeknownst to many, the choice to have her charity work dominate the brief bio could have come from the actress herself. According to the week.co.uk, in her now-defunct website The Ting, she confessed that charity was more important to her than acting. “I’ve never wanted to be a lady who lunches,” she wrote in a blog post. “I’ve always wanted to be a woman who works. And this type of work is what feeds my soul, and fuels my purpose. The degree to which I can do that both on and off camera is a direct perk of my job.” Going through the different profiles of the members of the Royal family, something strikes about the Duchess of Sussex – the pull-out quote: “I am proud to be a woman and a feminist.” For many years, Meghan has been working with different organisations, particularly the United Nations (UN), advocating for gender equality and raising awareness on social injustices. At just 11 years, Meghan successfully campaigned against a sexist commercial that depicted women as the only gender that cleans dishes. Two months after her campaign, the commercial was changed and made inclusive.   One of the vendors described the lot as "a piece of history and Royal Wedding memorabilia given to celebrate a very special day."