A group of Kariobangi South residents and traders have moved to the High Court seeking to permanently stop the Nairobi County government from collecting rents amounting to Sh18 million from them. The more than 400 living in county houses or  leasing its property on Mahutini Road sued the county for allegedly neither maintaining the houses nor collecting garbage, as well as  the deplorable state of the road, among other grievances. In a petition filed through Mr Uhuru Ward MCA Gregory Ndege, they are asking the court to direct them to deposit the rents and taxes in an alternative bank account. They want “an order of permanent injunction restraining the respondent, his agents, servants or cronies from collecting, receiving, charging rent, or rates from the following houses  until the said road is repaired or upgraded”. MAINTAIN HOUSES They want the court to declare that the county government infringed on their rights because it failed to repair and maintain the houses, the road, and other amenities. In addition, they want “the respondent, his agents, servants  to be compelled to build a proper road, drainage system, and street lights on the Mahutini Road within the next 60 days”. The group accused the county of neglecting its duty, yet it  receives monthly rents of Sh700 for flats and Sh7,500 for maisonettes on time. “That the petitioners are being discriminated against or  treated with prejudice by the first respondent since they have been paying their rents, rates  and cess expecting in return that the respondent shall provide a proper road and drainage system for their use,” Mr Ndege said. FIX ROAD They said Mahutini Road has been in bad shape for seven years, adding that county government had ignored their constant appeals to fix it. They want the High Court to order them stop paying  rents and business levies until the county repairs and maintains the 300-metre road from  the Outering Road junction. They noted that  the road leads to a county government clinic that receives about 600 visitors daily. They said the situation is aggravated by the lack of a drainage system, exposing them to  health hazards, and that it is a threat to their  physical security and  wellbeing of their children, especially during the rainy season.  