It is amazing that our leaders are still sending invites and asking fellow Kenyans to attend homecoming ceremonies meant to celebrate victory in an election held eight months ago. Following the charged and highly divisive prolonged electioneering period that culminated in the August 8, 2017 General Election and the repeat presidential poll on October 26, the March 9 handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga appears to have calmed the country. With less animosity, leaders would be expected to train their eyes on fixing the many perennial challenges facing Kenyans. But that appears not to be the case. The number of homecoming parties has shot up since the famous handshake and more are on the way. This as the lives of millions of citizens become tougher and harder. PARTIES These ceremonies really border on an insult to many sane Kenyans, who expect nothing but tangible solutions to the ills bedevilling the nation. Anyone keen on events in Parliament would realise that the political leaders who are active have never held an homecoming party. However, most of those at the forefront of hosting these ceremonies have not sponsored any Bill or motion since they were elected. Have they only been planning their victory party all that time? What’s more worrying is that most of these events have become forums where politicians chide their rivals, incite Kenyans against one another and just chest thump. Contrary to what the name suggests, the parties are rarely used to thank anyone. FAMILY It’s even more insulting for a Cabinet secretary or principal secretary to plan such an event. These are the leading policy makers, who should be raking their brains as they develop strategies on how to make Kenyans’ lives better. They should be out there ensuring those policies are properly implemented and giving frequent updates on their successes and failures and, importantly, how they could be improved. It is not bad to hold a small party and buy some nyama choma and down it with some drinks to celebrate a feat. It is human and godly to say ‘thank you’. However, that should be for family and close friends. It should be an intimate affair involving only those who played a role in the victory and neither a constituency affair nor a national event. And since it is meant as an expression of appreciation, it should serve just that purpose and nothing more. Importantly, the party should be held within the first month of the victory for them to make sense, not ages later. REPORT CARDS People don’t cast their vote for you so that they can receive an invite to some vague homecoming party. The only way to thank voters is through finding solutions to challenges such as unemployment, insecurity, corruption and the cost of living. Just as workers in organisation sign performance contracts and are appraised regularly, elected leaders should be held to account for their time in office. Instead of hosting lavish parties, therefore, they should hold quarterly or biannual meetings that would act as a forum to present their report card to their employer — voters. JUNIORS This shouldn’t just be a gentleman’s agreement between the electorate and the elected; there should be a law protecting it. Just as it is with swearing-in ceremonies, that law should clearly indicate when and where the meetings should be held, the agenda and participants. They should also be recorded. The President, his deputy and the opposition leaders should discourage their juniors from wasting time and pumping millions of shillings into functions that do not add value to the lives of those who queued for hours to vote for them. Kenyans should also put to task leaders who host such events to show what they have done for the people instead. Mr Kiplang’at is the Regional Editor, North Rift, for Nation Media Group. jkiplangat@ke.nationmedia.com  