Doris*, 30, has been trying to shed some extra kilos since she gave birth to her first child three years ago. But the seven kilos have refused to budge. “I tried eating healthy, per nutritionist guidelines, and I lost five kilos on that, and then nothing,” she laments. So she joined a gym. “I just didn’t have the time to attend five times a week,” she continues. She quit that and decided to work out at home, at her convenience – but with a young child who requires constant attention, she often found herself derailed. “Now I am willing to try anything to shift the weight,” she says. She has discovered the ketogenic diet, during which she is required to eat a high-fat, mid-protein and low-carb diet. “People who do it say it is the best for results, but so far all I have suffered is extreme carb withdrawal. It’s tiring,” she says. The ketogenic and other diets such as Atkins have, in the past, been criticised for being unreliable fads. What do experts think about these and other faddy weight-loss schemes? Which ones are likely to work, and which ones should you ignore? Let’s find out. Dr Esther Dindi, founder of Doctor Fitness and Fitsistaz KE “One of the biggest fails in weight loss journeys that my clients always question me about is the slimming belt. These belts, along with waist trainers that are used by women to lose weight particularly across the waist, are a fake. They never work. You can’t lose weight by squeezing it. It is better used by those who wear it beneath dresses to shape themselves. “Sweating does not equal weight loss. So for those sweating it out in saunas dressed in garbage bags, sweat suits or donning the sweat belts to maximise on weight loss, all you are losing is water. Once you eat you gain all the weight back. Inducing excessive sweating like this exposes one to heat strokes and kidney damage that is detrimental to your health. “Detox diets are also fads. Be it juicing, blending, detoxing, colon cleansing, slimming teas, name them all. These are just fads. Some of these drinks have laxatives that cause bowel movements thus inducing even diarrhea, and some of them cause a lot of peeing; in the process the body loses a lot of water. Additionally, these health regimens makes one lethargic, since they cause once to lose their metabolism and muscle mass which slows down the body.   People should understand that the colon is meant to empty out waste products in our bodies therefore it is a waste of time to engage in any colon treatments unless it is blocked. If it is blocked, seek proper medical help. The colon gets rid of all waste every 72 hours. “Hot lemon water or lemon tea does not burn fat. It is a good vitamin boost since it produces vitamin C. However, it corrodes the teeth, especially when sipping it bit by bit; it is best gulped down. “There is a general misconception that one can get rid of a big tummy without losing the general body weight especially the ‘assets’. I have had numerous requests from people who want spot reduction, particularly the tummy; regrettably, this can’t happen. There is no way one can choose where to get rid of excess weight. Weight loss is genetically predetermined; that’s why people lose fat differently. Sit ups are the go to exercise for flat tummies; however diet and cardio plays a big role in having a flat tummy. Reducing food portion sizes and engaging in simple cardio workouts such as brisk walks, cycling, swimming, hiking and aerobics for at least 150 minutes in a week can go a long way in cutting down bellies. “Avoiding carbs, gluten, animal products and others are another fad. There has been a common trend to avoid eating carbohydrates especially during dinners which is absolutely wrong. Carbs do not become suddenly more fattening at night. Instead of skipping carbs, take an alternative of whole grain carbs such as beans, maize, etc. Healthy carbs preserve muscles. “Going gluten free is also an unnecessary evil. Unless you have a medical condition or allergy, you don’t have to skip gluten. It is just another form of carbohydrates, which offers you variety in your diet. Restricting gluten while over indulging in other things will not help. You can have your chapati and mandazi occasionally. It is important to note that most junk food in the Kenyan market is wheat and it isn’t bad to cut down on that. “Skipping animal products is not a healthy choice. Animals offer Vitamin B12, which is essential to our bodies. Meat is very special to our bodies and should never be eliminated. The problem is that people tend to over consume fatty parts of meat; lean meat is the best option. Prepare the meat with limited oil and eat small portions. However, it is okay to give more preference to white meat (chicken and fish) since they have lower calories compared to red meat. “Taking a spoon of coconut oil is a trend that has no basis. All you are doing is taking unnecessary calories. Pills, whether prescribed or herbal or from whichever source, are also not good. They don’t add much. The role of pills is very limited; they can suppress appetites which last for about three months before the body recalibrates. Plus, they have to be supplemented with a healthy diet and exercise.”  Shiverenje Simani, co-founder of JustGymit “There is a common misunderstanding that gyming, especially weight lifting, is for men. Women often relate lifting weights with being masculine. That is not the case; weights help you build your muscles and tone. They also help burn fat. Michelle Obama is an active weight lifter which has toned her muscles well, giving her a great body. “Men have a hormone which enables them to build those heavy muscles. They can get muscles by simply lifting weights and eating lots of carbohydrates and protein. On the other hand, women remain lean because they don’t have that hormones in their build unless they take those hormones orally to grow their muscles.   “Intermittent fasting is no better than any kind of dieting. People are taking to ‘fasting’ the whole night and waking up first thing to cardio exercise in the morning, believing it burns more calories. Can you imagine working out while hungry? It makes one more hungry and it is basically starvation, not sustainable and I would not recommend it to anyone. “Exercising too much does not mean fast or extreme weight loss. Working out burns little calories compared to what you consume. Ensure you put in the right fuel; fitness is 80 per cent what you eat and 20 per cent exercise. No over indulging or unhealthy eating because you are working out. “It is a delusion that slim people don’t need to work out or plan their meals. Being slim is not equivalent to being healthy. If they eat badly they will be prone to poor health. If they don’t exercise they can have excessive fats in their bodies. Therefore slender people or those guys who never seem to get fat irrespective of what/how much they eat need to be physical active and eat well balanced meals for the purpose of enjoying good health.”  Henry Ng’ethe, Chairman, Nutrition Association of Kenya “Eating processed healthy snacks is a fad. Any packaged snacks that are advertised to be a healthy option are fake. Products in the Kenyan market contain fake information on what they contain and thus cannot be really trusted. On top of that, there is very little information about the contents of the products. Most of the products perpetuated to be healthy are most often not. “Diets are also misconstrued. There are many organisations and individuals promoting different kinds of diets to the general market, which is wrong. A single diet cannot apply to everyone. Diets should vary from person to person. Every individual has different nutrient requirements for their body. These generalised diets advance some dormant diseases; diabetes in the family can be induced by a fake diet which is not nutritionally complete. “Supplements are also fake. Marketers in Kenya have managed to convince the public to take supplements without proper lab investigations or analysis of their biochemical components. These supplements are very fake and are administered to people without taking measurements of the nutrients levels in a person’s body. They are meant to supplement our diets and maintain our health but they can cause the opposite. Like too much vitamins can even feed cancerous cells; too much iron feeds the bacteria in our bodies and most people always have a bacterial infection. It is important to seek individualised diets and supplements from health experts to ensure that you are not eating poorly. “Kenyans need to remember that a healthy foundation is key to a healthy life. Be aware of the food you consume daily; it is important to seek custom- made information on nutrition. This is the only way to beat the high stunt rate of 25 per cent, increased obesity and cancer cases in the country.  