I want to be a tenderpreneur when I grow up. A Toyota Landcruiser VX-driving, arrest-prone, scandal-scarred, million-minting, dummy company-owning, air-supplying tender cooker. Why, you ask, would I want to be such a widely vilified, ethics-challenged animal. Here is the reason. The scales have dropped off my eyes. I have been looking at my car the way a man looks at his wife: You don’t see the years. Every time you look at her, you see the small girl who caught your eye decades ago. My car is the oldest daily use car in Kenya. Its paint is cooked in the sun until it has browned like onion. Its nose is ugly and broken — the result of a head-on crash that I never quite got round to fixing — it looks like it’s been kicked. PERFECT RECORD It doesn’t even have a perfect record. It has rolled twice — once with me — and has suffered an engine knock as well. I think part of the reason I keep it is because I don’t know what to do with it. The other one is related to my renaming it “The Write-off Artist”; it exists to manufacture write-offs. It is the easiest and best car to drive on Kiambu Road and Thika ‘Superjamway’, where Kenya’s worst drivers are to be found. When somebody cuts in suddenly in front of me, I never molest the old brakes. A couple of matatus have crashed into me from the rear, especially the 14-seater vans; I don’t stop and I never look back. My car’s ugliness seems to be contagious; every time it comes into contact with another vehicle, the other vehicle ends up looking like it. I want to be a tenderpreneur because only a tenderpreneur can afford very nice cars — I mean, five-litre petrol engine type of nice cars. CARESS THE GAS Cars with so much power the nose rises to the air and the car takes off every time you caress the gas. I want to go to Monaco for massage. I want to own an apartment in Jumeirah Beach. I want to stay at the Burj Khalifa, not Deira, when I go to Dubai. I want a Maybach waiting for me at Heathrow, not the damn tube. I want villagers to do a traditional jig every time I drop by. The only way I can have all this is if I am cooking tenders. Just one tender for army bisquits and pineapple in syrup is more than enough, I suppose Mr Mbogo? But how does one become a successful tenderpreneur, apart from having no scruples and loving money more than you love Jesus? I have been doing some research. It is very important to ‘slay’. If you do, you will find clerks lining up the streets of NYS waving LPOs and begging you to flood the place with air. Why, they may even issue the LPOs along with payment vouchers all authorised and ready for Ifmis. AIR SUPPLIER You must know people. As you may have guessed, it does take much, in the way of brains, to be an air supplier. Supplies is not a competence challenge; it is a networking assignment. You have to look for people from your tribe who are in a position to issue LPOs and push payments. You need a strong and hard body. If you are soft, then you cannot live through the day-long court sessions and brutal interrogation by detectives trying to find out how much money you have and where you have hidden it. You must be a collector of heavy jackets. These are both mattress and duvet in the cell when your luck finally runs out — as it often will. You must be strong in prayer. You have to pray and believe that the government is not serious about fighting corruption, that you will always be able to buy your way out of trouble and that you will not, for real, end up in Kamiti Maximum Prison, eating air supplied by one of your comrades in business. LEARN SOME CHEMISTRY Knowledge of chemistry is an added advantage. If you are going to trade in air, you must understand its properties, how to capture it, store it and transport it to NYS. You must possess one or two big spoons with which to eat life. You can’t go El Bulli to order chips for crying out aloud! You must know how to inhale caviar like snuff and to rinse your ears with champagne. This is the big league, my brother, not Mama Baby’s chicken eatery in Kaloleni. And dare you tell me that my dreams are evil, that I should play by the rules and aspire to be a thief. I have lived by the rules, I have bought cars with loans and hustled myself half to death. And where did that ever get me? I have never been to Monaco, I don’t have an apartment in Jumeirah Beach and my car looks like it’s been kicked. mmutuma@ke.nationmedia.com  