'A child whose mother has gone to the river cries just as one whose mother has died'- Ethiopian saying My earliest memory of my mother was our furtive whispering across the school fence whenever she visited me. My earliest memory thereafter was our furtive whispering across the school fence when she visited me. These visits and the occasional letters grew fewer and fewer then stopped as she moved further away from home in search of who-knows-what. You see, my mother left me and my three siblings when we were very young and dad picked up the slack. The years rolled by with childhood giving way to adolescence and soon I left home for university. As suddenly as she had left, mum re-appeared. She traced me to my hostel room at the university and told me she had obtained a transfer to Nairobi so she could be 'closer' to us, her children. I was alarmed at this development and wanted none of it. I could barely recognise her at this point so what kind of closeness were we supposed to forge? INVITED ME FOR LUNCH She settled into a house in Nairobi and invited me to her house for lunch. After much soul-searching, I showed up at her doorstep, more out of curiosity than anything else. I took my room-mate along for moral support. The lunch was awkward, marked by long silences neither of us knew how to fill. On the bus back to the hostel, I thought of the chasm between us and wondered how many lunches it would take to fill it. Would I ever get past the hurt and rejection I felt at her leaving us and would we ever have a normal mother and daughter relationship? I did not believe so and resolved not to return. A few years went by. Then I met the man I would later marry and he played a big role in putting mum and me on the road to a functional relationship. It took many baby steps, taken mostly by mum. She was persistent in the face of many rebuffs, unreturned calls, unopened gifts and unacknowledged visits. I would spot her hovering on the periphery at family gatherings and my heart would go out to her. But part of me was still bitter with her and wanted her to suffer as I had suffered. TURNING POINT The birth of my children marked the turning point in our relationship. For the first time, I put myself in her shoes and tried to understand her choices without judging her. She doted on my children and I began to think maybe I could let go of the past. It wasn't easy relinquishing the control I had long wielded over her so we could have a healthier relationship. I had to get off my high horse and meet her halfway. On her part mum is strong-willed and though age has mellowed her she refuses to be hostage to her choices of yester years. Strangely enough, I admire this about her. We are in a good place. We respect and support each other. What I have learned is that some mother and daughter relationships are complex, but none the worse for it. A mum is still only human, and prone to mistakes. And we all deserve a second chance. *** Please follow the Twitter hashtag #MumstoriesKEfor more stories like this.     Words to express gratitude to my mom failed me on my graduation day.