The police are to blame for the huge state payout to victims of human rights violations, the Solicitor-General Ken Ogeto has said. Mr Ogeto said cases of arbitrary arrests by the police, unlawful detention, obstruction of justice and impunity have continued to rise despite attempts by the Independent Police Oversight Authority (Ipoa) to address them. “The innocent taxpayer cannot continue to shoulder the burden of reckless public officers,” the solicitor general said, adding “the attainment of good governance and the rule of law would require a collaborative and constructive engagement strategy as opposed to finger pointing approach.” Mr Ogeto, said the state will hold police officers personally responsible if they act in violation of their constitutional mandate. “The State Law Office takes very seriously complaints about bad governance, impunity and violations of human rights. In several instances, the government has been sued and found liable for transgressions committed by state officials including the police officers against the citizens,” Mr Ogeto said. COMPLAINTS Mr Ogeto’s concerns come as Ipoa’s inaugural board indicated that at least 9,000 complaints were reported against the police in its end of term report that was presented to Interior Secretary Fred Matiang’i on Monday for action against rogue officers. Ipoa's board mandate came to an end this month after a six-year term in office. Attorney-General Kihara Kariuki’s predecessor, Githu Muigai, had suggested that police officers whose action led to unnecessary litigation against the state should be held liable. In the past, courts have awarded human rights violation victims heft compensations. By end of last year, the government had paid at least Sh3 billion to former political prisoners over illegal detentions. The late Kenneth Matiba, a political detainee, was awarded Sh1.5 billion for his illegal incarceration during the clamour for multiparty politics in the early 1990s. Former Subukia MP Koigi Wa Wamwere and Mr Otieno Mak’Onyango were paid Sh12 million and Sh20 million respectively after their successful litigation against the state. “As the principal defendant of these cases, the Attorney General is committed to working with Ipoa to ensure that this unnecessary litigation is brought to an end or at the very least, kept at a bare minimum.”  