Wrigley, a subsidiary of US-based Mars Incorporated, is one of the manufacturing and construction firms, set to give up land in Embakasi for expansion of the Inland Container Depot servicing the standard gauge railway (SGR). A gazette notice last Friday hinted at compulsory acquisition of prime industrial property by the National Land Commission (NLC) of seven acres from the 20-acre plot owned by Wrigley. Wrigley are the makers of the popular Big G, PK, Double-mint, Juicy Fruit and Orbit chewing gum. It recently reiterated it would build a Sh7 billion plant in Athi River though. 71 acres The government intends to acquire 71 acres of land for the project. The depot where goods are offloaded for onward delivery by road is owned by Kenya Ports Authority (KPA). Starpack Kenya Ltd, a packaging material firm will give up 7.4 acres while Hitech Gravures Ltd, a manufacturer of gravures cylinders used in printing will lose 6.62 acres. Three other firms, Carey Investments Ltd, Evergreen and Hammond Investments that each own 6.9188 acres will have their parcels chopped off. However, steel structures fabricator and construction firm H. Young (EA) Ltd’s acreage set for acquisition has not been published. The names of three other entities or individuals owning a total of 17.27 acres were also not disclosed. The largest parcel of land, however, will come from Julius Wantai ole Target who owns 20 acres in the area. READ: Authority in bid to speed up return of cargo containers READ: LETTER: Address congestion at container depot urgently Sh5.7 billion cost Early last month, the government lamented increase of land prices around the 100-acre ICD facility saying an acre was going for Sh80 million, meaning the land could cost at least Sh5.7 billion. Earlier, former KPA general manager for engineering services Joseph Atonga said land acquisitions would begin in June, once the government factors the purchases in its next budget. Last December, the KPA announced plans to acquire a 7.5-acre parcel of land that was priced at Sh600 million. The plans were shelved to facilitate negotiations to a more affordable level. READ: KPA slashes free storage time at Embakasi depot READ: Expansion of Nairobi depot hampered by expensive land  