Onyango Ayany is a photographer and cinematographer based in Nairobi, Kenya. You can find more of his work on his Instagram (@pikchaguy). He started off with wedding photography, and now focuses on portraiture, events, editorial and contracted work. He co-founded a production company called RNV Media, which is responsible for music videos such as Kagwe Mungai’s "Give It To Me", and is the co-host and principal photographer for the YouTube series Y Dowedoit.  1.How long did it take you to become a photographer? I’ve always had an interest in photography ever since I was a likkle yout inna yard (little youth in the yard). I first picked up a camera at the age of 9 or 10. However, I started taking photography seriously in high school. The short answer would be, all my life really.  2.Do you think that an online presence is important for photographers in this day and age? I’m not sure that it is. As far as I can tell, it’s great for notoriety but IG likes won’t keep the chicken in the coop, if you know what I mean! It’s a great tool to use when coming up to establish your brand with the general public and create awareness for your work. Beyond that, its efficacy hasn’t been proven just yet.  3.Who are some of your favourite photographers right now, locally and internationally? Locally, photographers that inspire and challenge me are Shuria Abdi (a cinematographer), Andrew Mageto (aka Maggie), Osse Sinare (he’s Tanzanian), Japicha (he’s a serious growing talent), Sebastian Wanzalla, Joe Were (right honourable)...off the top of my head. There’s so much talent in the industry that it’s hard to keep track of all the people but they stand out to me. Internationally there’s a bunch as well but currently, I find myself drawn to the works of Takashi Yasui (Tuck4), Yagazie Emezi and Joey Rosado (islandboiphotography). I like their vision and the eye they have for composition and colours, as well as their creativity when it comes to using different props in different settings; and getting something fantastic out of something seemingly ordinary.  4.Which shoot location tickles your fancy? I think any location can be great to shoot from as long as you can find its core strengths and play to them. I do, however love to shoot around large bodies of water. They’re vast, unfathomably so and give beautiful shots.  5.What are you planning to do this year in terms of big steps for your photography career? I’m working on growing my client base, working out concepts and ideas I’ve always wanted to explore and focusing on producing great work each time and not a great number of works (volumetrically speaking) all the time.   Prisca Ojwang’ is a 25-year-old Sauti Academy alumni. You have probably heard her first single, ‘Lies I told me’.