Police in Taveta, Taita Taveta County have arrested the owner of a club that residents claim has been targeting minors. The owner of Veteran Club was arrested in Taveta town on Tuesday following a tip-off from the public. Taveta OCPD Joel Chesire said the suspect will be arraigned and charged with selling alcoholic drinks to minors. Mr Chesire said he will be charged for contravening the Liquor Act which prohibits admission of minors into establishments selling alcohol. The club’s manager, Mr Silas Oviringwa, was arrested and charged at the Taveta Law Court on Monday for the same offense. Mr Oviringwa was released on Sh500, 000 cash bail by magistrate Geoffrey Kimang’a. “It is unlawful to sell alcohol to underage children. This should be a lesson to all bar and club owners,” the OCPD said. PARTY This comes after police arrested 89 schoolgoing minors, consisting of primary and secondary school students, in the club on Sunday night. The children were attending a back-to-school party that had been organised by the club’s management. But 30 of the minors were released after they presented their identity cards to the police. The remaining 56 schoolgoing minors were on Monday arraigned before the Taveta Law Court but did not take a plea. The minors are still being held at the police station after the magistrate ordered for age assessment tests. The minors will be presented in court on May 8, 2018 to face charges. The County Liquor and Licensing Board chairperson Mr John Mwakisha said the board will revoke the club’s license. Mr Mwakisha said they had received complaints from members of the public regarding the club. “We will also do the same to all clubs and bars which go contrary to the Act,” said Mr Mwakisha. Locals, however, blamed the administration for sleeping on their job despite numerous complaints from the public about the bar. A resident told the Nation that the club has been hosting parties meanT to attract children when students are on holiday. “They even advertise the parties through a public address system around Taveta. The police have been quiet about it,” said a Taveta resident, Ms Purity Ilongo.   The teenagers were arrested at a back-to-school party in Taveta.