I park my car besides Mariam’s in the little parking space in front of her house and switch it off, preparing to meet this mystery man she is in love with. “Wait,” Mariam hesitates with her hand on my arm, stopping me from opening the car door. “Just… please promise me you won’t judge? I’ve had enough of that today.” I nod. “Don’t worry. Besides, it’s not like I am staying. I will only be here a few seconds.” She takes a deep breath and we both get out of the car and walk towards her house. A few short seconds later, Mariam swings her front door wide open and I am assaulted by the sound of bullets and cars crashing into each other. “Put the sound down!” Mariam shouts into the living room. I follow behind her, not sure what to expect. CRASHING CARS The sound of crashing cars and bullets comes to an immediate halt and then a tall man emerges from the depths of the living room. He’s wearing nothing but track suit bottoms, and I can see why Mariam is in love with him – he looks like he lives in the gym! “Honey I’d like to introduce you to a friend of mine,” Mariam says, shutting the door behind us and going over to his side. “Liz, this is Joe. Joe, Liz.” “Nice to meet one of my baby’s friends,” he says, putting one arm around Mariam’s shoulders and extending the other for me to shake. I reach out and give it an enthusiastic pump; up close he looks even better in real life than he does in his pictures. If I was in Mariam’s shoes I think I would be just as smitten as she is. “Welcome to our humble abode,” he says, ushering me into the living room. I raise an eyebrow at that ‘our abode’; I had no idea they were living together. I follow Joe’s lead into the living room and have to momentarily pause to catch my breath and take it all in. Ordinarily, Mariam is a neat-freak who likes to make sure everything is in its place; but today there are empty, crumpled cans of beer strewn all over the coffee table; an empty pizza carton with paper napkins all over the place; ring marks on the surface of the table; an abandoned towel on one of the seats; a pile of what I presume is clean laundry on another. I gasp. “Honey I thought I told you to clear up after yourself,” Mariam says. I frown. Joe jumps to work. “Baby I told you you need to learn to relax,” he coaxes her. “I’ll clear up.” “But if you don’t do it now where will our guest sit?” Not wanting to witness any fighting between the two of them given I have literally just met the young man, I turn to Mariam: “Don’t worry about me, I am just about to leave anyway. It was nice to meet you J-,” I say, but he waves me silent. “No, no, it’s no fuss. Let me just take these away,” he says, lifting the pile of laundry and disappearing into the depths of the house with it in his arms. “Sorry about the mess,” Mariam says when he is out of earshot. “I keep telling him to tidy up after himself but that’s about the only struggle we have.” She starts to pick up all the empties on the table while I settle into the now-clear chair and frown; so far, while I am impressed by Joe’s looks, I have to admit that I am not terribly enamoured of anything else about him – and I don’t know how I am going to tell Mariam this. Joe comes back into the living room to find Mariam’s hands full of his rubbish. “Don’t worry about that,” he says, taking it all from her and heading into the kitchen to return with a kitchen cloth to wipe the table. My opinion of him is marginally improved. Mariam watches him for a while then turns to me. “Would you like a drink, maybe?” Joe looks up. “Yea, have a glass of wine or something then we can have a conversation and you can give me the third degree like I know you plan to,” he laughs. I join in. I am starting to warm up to him. And this is how I find myself still in Mariam’s living room an hour later, conducting my own version of the Spanish inquisition.   Liz receives a package at work that she was not expecting… and lots of anticipation ensues.