Fifteen Heads of Mission in Kenya have asked the Judiciary to take swift action to ensure fair trials and justice in the recent corruption cases. The ambassadors said they welcome the recent action by the Director of Public Prosecutions, working with the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, to charge officials in connection with reports of widespread corruption at the National Youth Service (NYS). CHALLENGES “No country is free of corruption, and many of ours have faced challenges. There are no shortcuts to tackling the problem.  It requires strong Kenyan political leadership, a commitment to zero tolerance for corruption, and all government and law enforcement agencies working together,” they said in a statement. They added that where there is evidence of corruption, those responsible should be prosecuted regardless of political party, social stature, or personal connections. “Individuals or organisations found guilty of stealing should be held accountable, to include forfeiting the proceeds of their crimes. “And Kenyans need strong, reliable institutions and systems that reduce the opportunities for corruption,” they said. They include Ambassadors Robert Godec of the United States, Nic Hailey (High Commissioner for the United Kingdom,), Stefano Dejak (European Union Delegation to Kenya), Anna Jardfeldt (Sweden), Frans Makken (Netherlands), Jutta Frasch (Germany), Mauro Massoni (Italy) Pavel Rezac (Czech Republic),  Frantisek Dlhopolcek(Slovak Republic)and Vebjørn Heines (Norway). Others include Ambassador of Denmark Mette Knudsen, Ralf Heckner (Switzerland), Tarja Fernández (Finland) Alison Chartres (High Commissioner for Australia) Sara Hradecky (for Canada), Jacek Bazanski (Poland), Julia Pataki (Romania) and Lisa Doherty (Ireland) They promised to stand together with Kenyans in the fight against corruption which they said, has long undermined Kenya’s prosperity, security, and democracy. They exuded optimism that Kenyans can end corruption if they joined hands, take decisive action, and make the changes that are needed.   Anti-corruption court to rule on their bail application on June 5.