The Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji has received 10 files in relation to the Sh9 billion National Youth Service scandal, opening the window for arrests and prosecutions of suspects. The DPP confirmed, through a tweet on Sunday morning, receiving Inquiry Files No. 51 of 2018 to 60 of 2018 through a letter from the Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti. “A team of experienced prosecutors led by the DPP is currently undertaking final review of the files,” a tweet by the DPP’s office. The DPP said the files touch on 10 companies and more than 40 individuals who are under investigation over the possible loss of taxpayer's funds at the NYS. President Uhuru Kenyatta has ordered for swift investigations into the scam. Already, Youth Principal Secretary Lilian Omollo and NYS Director-General Richard Ndubai stepped aside for three months to allow investigators conclude probe. The two were among 40 people who were summoned by police for questioning by the DCI. Ms Omollo, who appeared before the National Assembly's Public Accounts Committee, said the money had not been lost even as she admitted some suppliers remain unpaid. The PS said the Auditor-General's 2016/17 report did not flag off any fraudulent transactions. The report is yet to be tabled in the National Assembly. SCHEME The siphoning of money from NYS, investigators believe, was a well-orchestrated plan with key players in the decision-making process involved. The payment process would be initiated from the NYS head office, then the Ministry of Youth headquarters would okay it before Treasury would allow the money to leave government coffers right to banks where it would be withdrawn within hours of hitting designated accounts. In a long list of companies under investigation, two —Firstling Supplies and Flagstone Merchants — received Sh 1.7 billion from the National Youth Service between November and December last year. Some of the transactions under investigation were double payments. In one case, four payments were made to a company for one voucher. Each of the payments was worth more than Sh46 million, with the difference in amounts varying by only a few hundreds of shillings. In another such payment, the company received equal amounts of money, yet only one voucher was available for scrutiny. Detectives are struggling to establish whether the deliveries indicated were even made. Multiple payments were released from the IFMIS to the companies’ accounts at intervals, with the amounts being released less than an hour after  a claim was made.   Ms Mbogo said a majority of the payments made were pending bills inherited from the previous financial years.