Starring Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson, Jack Black, Kevin Hart, Karen Gillan  I had mixed reactions when this film came out but now I really wish someone had told me about this flick sooner. First, my concerns: my concerns for this movie stemmed from the very beginning – the cast. I mean, you have to remember that this was a movie initially done – and done well – by the late, great Robin Williams. I hesitate to laud any remakes of any movies he's been in – even the lesser known ones like Flubber. They're already doing a remake of Aladdin with Will Smith as the genie. I love me some Will, but other than the terrible movie choices he's been making lately (Focus, Suicide Squad), let's be honest – no one does the genie like the actual original magnificent genie. I don't see it. I don't have any faith whatsoever in Smith's improv/kookiness level chops, and...I mean, it's Robin WILLIAMS! Heaven forbid they start talking about a remake of Dead Poets Society. CHILDHOOD MEMORIES Then of course, there's my general apprehension towards remakes, even though that's all Hollywood seems to be doing these days. If it isn't an endless superhero universe—no offence intended at ongoing endless superhero universes—it's remakes of everything that should not be touched, part twos, threes and fours of prequels and sequels that I would think not a lot of people want (the box office numbers tell me differently, though, obviously) and adaptations of books that should, again, not be touched. A Wrinkle in Time was one of my favourite books/series as a child. It's so money-minded (yes, yes, I know I'm talking about Hollywood here) to a) pick a book that is in a series format, so that they can make more, and b) choose the book that they know we are going to go to the cinemas to watch simply because it is a slice of our childhood, much like Jumanji. I do like Ava DuVernay, generally, and I'll watch anything that has Mindy Kaling in it, but I wish they would leave a little bit of my childhood for me. Speaking of childhood and the figures who made it – The Rock was always my favourite wrestler, even though he is quite far from being my favourite actor. His last Hart-coupled offering, to put it mildly, was horrible. Central Intelligence was a snoozefest. No, literally – I fell asleep. They were both trying too hard to be funny, to play off each other, to be characters completely different from their typecast selves – I couldn't stand it. Which is why it took me so long (this, and the aforementioned reasons) to watch Jumanji. NO REGRETS But, when I did, it was hilarious! My goodness. Apparently Jack Black has always acted like this, and I've just been ignoring it? (I don't think so, I didn't particularly like School of Rock, and that was him in his element, no?) (Now that I think about it, Lenny from Shark Tale is exactly who Jack Black is in Jumanji, hehe!). Jumanji originally was a story about humans being pulled into a weird occult game with a lot of wild animals and crazy natural disasters coming to life. This part two (I guess) brings four kids back into this game when they stumble upon it during detention, and they have to finish the game to get back out. There's a lot of room for well-done comedy – the contrasts between the kids and who they become, the corny game language and quest-like setting, and, inevitably, fighting the equally corny villain who wants to rule Jumanji forever. There's a few heart-warming moments, of course, but the comedic balance is well maintained. I actually watched this movie twice. I rarely watch movies twice, but I had to watch it once for my reactions, and another time to get everyone else's. The Rock shines in his role as immediate team leader, and we all buy it; Karen Gillan is fantastic as an awkward dance fighting heroine; Kevin Hart basically plays Kevin Hart, which, ironically, isn't tiring in this movie. But for me, the star of the movie Is Jack Black. He takes on the role with a seriousness reminiscent of Rob Schneider in Hot Chick but with an actual storyline and actual skill. Seriously, Jack Black is a gem. Watch the movie for him, if no one else.   An oil tycoon does not want to lose money.