A man who stabbed a Nakuru magistrate moments after he was jailed for assault has earned 11 years in prison. Michael Kuhora was on Friday found guilty of three counts of attempted murder and assault. 5 YEARS Chief Magistrate Josephat Kalo handed Kuhora five years for attempted murder of Nakuru Resident Magistrate Eunice Kelly. He got three years for attempted murder of the complainant in the initial case, Ms Edith Adhiambo, and another 3 years for assaulting a court orderly, police constable Veronica Wanjiru. Kuhora committed the offence on November 22, 2016, moments after he had been jailed for three years for assaulting Ms Adhiambo. He committed the offence at the Nakuru Law Courts using a screw driver. A police report indicated that Kuhora pounced on the complainant, Ms Adhiambo, stabbing her several times before proceeding to stab the magistrate. He attacked the orderly who tried to intervene and save Ms Adhiambo before he jumped over benches and stabbed Ms Kelley her six times on the upper limb. After the attack, he fled the courtroom before he was arrested by police officers manning the law courts. Kuhora, an electrician, told the court that the ruling shocked him before fury got the best of him. GK PRISON He said he had expected the judgment to favour him. He told the court that he got the screw driver from government offices in Nakuru where he had been contracted for a casual job. He had hidden the weapon in his clothes when he appeared in court for the ruling. Ms Kelley took sick leave due to trauma before she testified in the case in 2017. Kuhora has been at the Nakuru GK Prison since the case started after he was denied bond because he was viewed as dangerous. In mitigation, the convict pleaded with the court for leniency, saying that is was an orphan after his parents passed away 16 years ago. He added that he is the sole bread winner of his family. However, the magistrate while sentencing him said, the conviction was commensurate to the offences. The court did not specify whether the convict will serve his sentences consecutively or concurrently.   Convict also attacks complainant and court orderly soon after he was jailed for three years.