Econet Media's pan-African broadcast network, Kwesé has signed John Obi Mikel as the first official brand ambassador. The former Chelsea player, who currently plays in the Chinese Super League, will represent the dynamic broadcasters' services and initiatives across the continent starting with the upcoming 2018 Fifa World Cup in Russia which the network alongside NTV from next month. Considered one of Nigeria's most accomplished players, Mikel will feature in Kwesé's upcoming advertising campaigns which will encompass print, television and radio. Having first launched its service in 2016, Kwesé is one of the continent's fastest growing media business with a diversified offering that includes Africa's largest free-to-air channel Kwesé Free Sports, mobile services, digital and a pay TV satellite network all under one roof. With a strong presence across sub-Saharan Africa through its various platforms, Kwesé is arguably one of Africa's most exciting and innovative broadcasters. "In choosing the right personality to partner with our brand, we wanted someone who embodies what we stand for as an African broadcaster. Mikel represents exceptional sporting talent and is loved by fans across the continent. His commitment to excellence and his work to improve the sporting talent of the next generation of athletes made him the perfect choice for us," expressed Joseph Hundah, President and Group Chief Executive Officer of Econet Media. One of only two African players to have won Europe's top two continental club competitions with the English side, Mikel enjoyed over a decade of service for the Blues as a midfielder making 374 appearance for the team. His accolades include being a two-time recipient of the African Young Player of the Year winner (2005 and 2006) as well as the Chelsea's Young Player of the Year award (2007 and 2008). There is no denying Mikel's impressive sporting career, however his most rewarding role is that of founder of the Mikel Obi Africa Children's Sports Foundation. The foundation seeks to alleviate poverty by empowering young Africans through sports. This includes nurturing sporting talent in the areas of football, rugby, tennis, cycling, basketball, cricket, hockey and athletics. Foundation beneficiaries have access to a range of specialist coaches and teachers providing them with a unique opportunity to hone their skills. Extending beyond athletic support, the foundation also assists children with an interest in sports sciences, nutrition, physiotherapy to realise their dreams and forge a better future for themselves and their families. As part of the partnership with Mikel, Kwesé will join the impressive list of international bodies and associations investing in growing the network of the Mikel Obi Africa Childrens Sports Foundation academies across Africa. Commenting on his association with Kwesé, John Obi Mikel said, "Its a pleasure and honour to be asked and today become the official ambassador of Kwesé TV, a subsidiary of Econet Media. I am proud to become a member of the Econet Media family and the face of Kwesé TV globally. I am excited to work with a media network that is redefining broadcasting in Africa, bringing pay as you watch TV, free-to-air TV and digital programming. As in my football career, it was important for me me to represent an organisation that puts fans and customers first, power, pride, strength and most importantly, a consistent winner," he said.  