Health services have been paralysed at Ndhiwa sub-County Hospital in Homa Bay County after a non-governmental organisation withdrew its medical staff from the health facility. The organisation, Medicine Sans Frontiers (MSF), terminated its contract with the county government and withdrew its three clinical officers and seven nurses. Following MSF’s pull out, the hospital wards were closed and other health services offered at the facility crippled. MFS recalled its health workers last month after the county government failed to hire them following the end of a heath programme run by the organisation in the hospital. The hospital’s deputy administrator, Charles Onyango, said the county government had signed an agreement with MSF to hire the medical staff after a specific period of time. “The agreement was to bring on board the health workers for a period of time. They were then to be employed by the county government,” Mr Onyango said. Mr Onyango said the government failed to fulfill the agreement. “The notice was issued to the county government to have an opportunity to absorb the workers or employ new staff. Attempts by the county government to ask for an extension of the contract have not been successful,” said Mr Onyango added. He said the hospital has since been turning away patients. “We have been transferring at least three patients to Homa Bay County Teaching and Referral Hospital every day. The health conditions of the ones who are left continues to deteriorate,” said the administrator. Local MP Martin Owino urged the county government to ensure the medical personnel are hired. “Ndhiwa Cub-County Hospital has several health challenges including high prevalence of HIV/Aids. The closure of the hospital will worsen the current state of health. The government should act quickly,” said Mr Owino. When contacted, County Health minister Richard Muga said the county government had deployed five nurses to the hospital who will attend to patients. “It is true that we are faced with a crisis at Ndhiwa sub-County Hospital. The government has already instructed five nurses who will start operations today,” he said.  