If there is anything that Kenyan universities have to invest in, then that is safe data storage systems that are easily accessible; which conserve data files in a secured location and in a way that can be readily accessed by the public. Our universities have to realise that they operate in an information-centric world. Ideally, they function in a world that relies on the creation and consumption of data which must be available when and where needed. My random check reveals that most of them use approaches to data storage and retrieval of the 1980s and ’90s in the 21st Century. I was shocked recently when I applied for a job in one of the universities. To verify my credentials, I was informed that an officer of the university had to travel to my institution — outside Kenya — to do only that. DATA STORAGE But this waste of resources in terms of time and money. Information that could be obtained at the click of a button was going to cost the taxpayer over $1,000! Perhaps the officers in Kenya think that foreign universities function as they do, without proper data storage and retrieval systems. My former university, the oldest and, undoubtedly, the most prestigious in East and Central Africa, has systems that work. That is why I agree with those who criticise our institutions as functioning in archaic and untenable technological regimes that do not encourage efficiency and effectiveness. With the advancement in technology, institutions need to invest in systems that work and train their officers to use them. The world is all about cutting costs. Universities always complain about limited funding from the government. But do they effectively utilise the minimal resources allocated to them? From my experience, they don’t. STRUGGLING TO SURVIVE Data storage networks can be used to cut costs and stretch resources. Institutions are struggling to survive within restricted budgets, hence the need for proper utilisation of funds. Our universities should make available most of the information that is important to the public online. That should include lists of all graduands from inception of the institutions; policies and procedures; application procedures; requirements for each course offered; curriculum vitae of all their officers; niche research areas; and any other information that should be accessed by the public. With this information uploaded on their websites, universities can expect just a few emails and calls from the public in circumstances that need clarification. Proper data storage and retrieval will also make the universities visible and competitive. If universities do not use technology to reduce costs, then who will? BLOATED WORKFORCE And why do we have a bloated workforce in most universities comprising of clerks, secretaries and administrators? In most universities, we have more administrators than lecturers! This should not be the case. Most administrators do what a simple technological innovation would handle in an organisation. Simply put, our universities should embrace technology. Inevitably, they should channel more resources towards their core mandate of teaching, research and development. Most of our universities use obsolete file management systems that consume a lot of space and are easily manipulated. It is also difficult and cumbersome to access data from such files. Many rooms in our universities, which could be used for other purposes, are stores of dirty and old files that pose a health hazard to workers. There is, therefore, an urgent need for digitisation of all the data stored in analog format. TIME MANAGEMENT Technology use will also improve on time management; workers will spend less time on data retrieval and focus on other duties. Indeed, for Kenya to catch up with the rest of the world, we will need to shift from the old way of doing things. Universities have a pivotal role in technology transfer; let them be enthusiastic in using it for efficiency. I am always humbled by the vision and determination of the government of Rwanda in embracing technology. In one of the faculties I visited at the University of Rwanda, one secretary serves the entire faculty and every head of department or lecturer has the information needed at the click of a button. Our situation is pitiable. We still have many workers who are functionally computer-illiterate and suffer from technology phobia. The cliché about use of yellow stickers is still a phenomenon common in universities. They don’t have a choice; universities must embrace technology and go paperless to enhance efficiency and effectiveness or perish. Ms Wangui is a post-graduate student at the School of Computer Science and Informatics, Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology (MMUST). wanguiharriet@gmail.com   Our universities have to realise that they operate in an information-centric world.