Police in Mombasa are investigating an alleged abduction of a teenage boy in Majengo. Husni Mbarak, 18, is said to have been bundled into a white Toyota Fielder by the four men on Friday evening and the car driven off. Mombasa County commander Johnston Ipara on Monday said two teams of detectives have been dispatched to search for the teen. “We have a team of CID officers and regular police involved in the search. We are also going to contact the relevant authority on the ownership records of the vehicle,” said Mr Ipara. SCREAMING Mbarak’s family has been agonising since his abduction. According to a witness, the teenager was heading to his father’s garage from a nearby butchery when he was captured by the four men. Mbarak’s friend who witnessed the incident said the four men forcefully pushed him into the car. “We were seated at the garage when we heard someone screaming. When I rushed out I saw Mbarak struggling to free himself from the grip of the men who were forcing him into the car,” said Mbarak's colleague who cannot be named for his security. FIREARMS He said together with another workmate they tried to stop the men from taking Mbarak but the men brandished pistols. “They said they were police officers and when they removed their firearms we let go. We were really shocked,” said the witness. The two captured the vehicle’s registration number and reported the matter to Central Police Station under OB Number 56/25/5/2018. The teen's father Mbarak Khalid said efforts to establish the whereabouts of his son who has been assisting him at his workshop have hit a brick wall. SHOCKING “It’s almost 48 hours now since my son was taken by the unknown men and we have heard nothing from anyone including the police. His mother has not been able to eat as the circumstances under which our son disappeared are very shocking,” said Mr Khalid. “He an obedient son. I can confidently say that as per how I have raised him but if anyone is accusing him of anything then let him produce him in court,” said Mr Khalid at Haki Africa’s office in Mombasa. He was accompanied by Mombasa Senator Mohammed Faki and Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir. REGISTRATION Mr Faki, a lawyer, argued that if the juvenile is accused of any wrongdoing, then right procedures should have been followed. Mr Nassir urged the police to help in tracing the youth. He said: “We are hoping that the police will do their part as we already have a lead which is the registration number of the car.” On the identification of the abductors as police, Mr Ipara termed them as “amateurs pretending to be police”. “Anybody can identify himself as police officer but I want to appeal to the public to be keen and ensure they produce their documents to prove that they are police officers,” said the county police chief.   Husni Mbarak, 18, is said to have been bundled into a white Toyota Fielder by the four men.