Suspects named in the National Youth Service scandal have until 2pm Thursday to present themselves to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations as directed by a Nairobi court. Chief Magistrate Douglas Ogoti told 17 suspects who were not present in court on Monday to present themselves to the DCI for fingerprinting and taking of statements. Their lawyers objected, but the application was rejected. They said the suspects were subject to court proceedings and therefore should appear before the magistrate, not the DCI. They also argued that directing them to appear before the investigators was a ploy to keep them in custody until Monday. “Some of the accused persons before the court have been held for more than 24 hours. We suspect that they want to hold them until Monday, given that Friday is a public holiday,” Mr Cliff Ombeta, who represented Mr Wellington Lubira, said. Mr Lubira was the acting finance director of NYS. SUSPECTS Mr Ombeta further said his client was not aware of the charges because no one summoned him and he had travelled to his rural home in Budalang’i. Other suspects who were not in court are Clara Mbao, Peter Muthomi Muguongo, Simon Kanyi Kairu, Ezekiel Ombaso Osoro and Julius Airo. Yet others were Michael Ojiambo, Peter Waema, and George Otieno. Mr Kirathe Wandugi, who represented a number of the suspects, said that requiring them to appear before the DCI was intimidation. The court further heard that some suspects presented themselves to the DCI only to be turned away. Those who denied the charges included suspended Youth Affairs PS Lillian Mbogo Omollo and National Youth Service Director General Richard Ndubai. They were remanded with 22 others, awaiting a ruling on bail. The women were taken to Lang’ata Women Prison while the 18 men were taken to Industrial Area Remand Prison. DELIVER RULING Anti-Corruption Chief Magistrate Douglas Ogoti said he would deliver a ruling on bail on June 5. Other suspects who appeared in court on Monday included Sammy Muchuki, Sophy Karimi, Rodgers Nzioka, Evan Wafula Kundu, Welenalo Mulupi, Ferdinand Matano Odonyo, Christopher Malala and Sammy Mbugua Mwangi. Business people in court included Anne Wanjiku Wambere Ngirita, Lucy Wambui Ngirita, Phyllis Ngirita, Simon Kanai, James Katululu, and Jeremiah Ngirita. Lawyer Stephen Ligunya, for Ms Omollo, said the suspects were not a flight risk, posed no threat to witnesses, and had no plans of interfering with investigations. He said Ms Omollo had all along cooperated with investigators and had been faced more than 50 probe teams, including a parliamentary committee and the Ethics and Anti-corruption Commission. SUSPECTS VISITED Meanwhile, the Nairobi Remand and Allocation Maximum Security Prison was on Wednesday a hive of activity as friends and relatives visited the NYS suspects. Five minutes past 3pm, a jungle green Range Rover Evogue drove into the remand prison. A woman of fair complexion alighted, dressed in a colourful dress and holding two hand bags. In one bag, a pair of red slippers could be seen. She is the wife of Mr Ndubai, who was brought to the facility on Tuesday night. Not far away from her, many relatives, friends and business partners lined up to visit the other 14 suspects.   Chief executives who allowed movement of huge amounts of cash will be held to account.