Former TV news anchor Louis Otieno now wants the father of slain Careen Chepchumba to undertake a DNA test. In the letter to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), Mr Otieno’s lawyer Norman Magaya has set five conditions that should be met before Mr Otieno is subjected to the fresh investigation. "We write to notify your good office that our client is agreeable and willing to cooperate with your office as may be required of him so as to unravel the truth and ensure the ends of justice are met," Mr Magaya says in the letter dated May 30. Mr Otieno wants DNA samples taken from Mr Hosea Kili, the father of Chepchumba, and his son Emmanuel for testing. He argued that the ruling by former Kibera Magistrate Charles Ondieki had procedural lapses. TELEPHONE INFOAccording to court records, Emmanuel was the first person to arrive at Careen’s house at Santonia Court Apartments in Kilimani, Nairobi, in 2012 when she was found dead. He informed the DPP that Mr Otieno is willing to be subjected to a DNA test if Mr Kili and his son undergo the same. The former journalist is also demanding an analysis of the slain Careen's telephone coordinates, that of her parents and brother. According to Mr Otieno, the details he is demanding where not presented in court during the murder inquest. SEXUAL ABUSE In his evidence, the former journalist, who has lost his hearing ability, told the court that Careen confided to him that she was sexually abused by her father. But Mr Ondieki said the allegation was uncorroborated. Mr Otieno also wants the DPP to provide original statements recorded by security guards at Santonia Court Apartments. He said the guards had confirmed that he did not visit Careen during the week she was murdered. FORENSICOn May 22, Mr Ondieki recommended that samples of Mr Otieno’s nail clippings be taken afresh in the presence of the head of Government Chemist after those taken by police turned out to be of Careen. The court also found that police exonerated Mr Otieno before carrying out forensic analysis of his phone, and that of the deceased, to establish where he was at the time of her death. Ms Chepchumba had claimed that Mr Otieno had been asking her for money to finance his lavish lifestyle. Mr Otieno denied all the claims and has perpetually maintained that they were just friends and he did not kill her.   Magistrate accuses police of bungling investigations into the murder.