The number of firms allowed to export chilli and vegetable to the European Union have fallen to four from 15 on stringent rules following an outbreak of pests. The emergence of false codling moth and armyworm in Kenya has hit chilli, tomatoes and other types of vegetables. Kenya Horticulture Council chief executive Jane Ngigi says the stringent rules have also affected exports of Karella (Asian vegetable). The Directorate of Horticulture has confirmed the pests are causing much harm to exporters and farmers. “There has been a serious slowdown in the export of chilli, tomatoes and corn as a result of the armyworm in Kenya, which has seen the EU apply very stringent rules that have to be met by our exporters,” said the outgoing head of the directorate Zakayo Magara. Ms Ngigi said EU rules only require farmers who plant in a controlled environment to export. READ: Kenya faces staggering losses from armyworm, US warns “The new rule implies that only growers who plant in greenhouses are allowed to export while those who plant in open fields have been affected by the rules,” she said. The move, which is likely to hit Kenya’s earnings from horticulture, has subjected many growers to losses as they are unable to sell their produce in the world market. “We have lost a sizable share of the market and this has to be addressed urgently to restore it,” said Ms Ngigi. The impact of the False codling moth was first felt last year while the armyworm, which mainly affects the maize crop, hit the country in 2016. Kenya Health Plant Inspectorate Service is still trying to come up with a remedy for controlling the moth, which is now posing a serious threat to the sector. The value of domestic horticulture production rose 41 per cent last year compared with 2016 on account of good prices. Data from the regulator indicates production value rose from Sh216 billion in 2016 to Sh305 billion last year. The total value of horticultural produce exported in 2017 increased from Sh101.5 billion in 2016 to Sh115 billion last year. ALSO READ: New crop-ruining worm headed for Kenya, Kalro warns  