Eighteen counties are to share Sh6.3 billion in the 2018/2019 financial year after they maintained financial discipline, the Commission on Revenue Allocation (CRA) said. Chairperson Jane Kiringai said there is a parameter on fiscal responsibility in the current CRA formula for the equitable sharing of revenue. Based on this parameter, which accounts for 2 per cent of the equitable share, 18 counties are expected to share Sh6.3 billion this financial year. “This means that the counties that demonstrated financial discipline will receive more finances,” Dr Kiringai said.  Specifically, Lamu will get an additional Sh1.2 billion from the fiscal responsibility parameter alone, the chairperson said. Dr Kiringai was speaking at the third County Revenue Enhancement and Automation Conference in Kwale. FINANCE COMMITTEES Participants attending the conference included governors, CRA commissioners, county executive members of finance and ICT, directors of revenue, planning and ICT and representatives of county assemblies’ budget and finance committees. The chairperson told counties to embrace ICT to curb bureaucracies and inefficiencies in revenue management. ICT, she noted, will enable devolved units achieve accelerated growth and development through efficiency and effective use of limited available resources. SERVICE DELIVERY An increased wage bill, Dr Kiringai noted, had stifled resources for development and service delivery. Governor Salim Mvurya said the first devolution governments began without structures and that the national government and Council of Governors were key in building financial structures. “In the second phase of implementation of devolution, the CRA conference on revenue automation and enhancement will be key in promoting learning and sharing of experiences as counties share from point of knowledge,” Mr Mvurya said. Counties were also asked to ensure that they link charges paid to specific services and development projects to ensure that the public can connect. REVENUE AUTOMATION The conference noted that only 33 counties had some level of revenue automation, whereas 14 counties had not made efforts to automate their revenues. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya called for stronger legislation to cover both national and county revenue. “This will derive consensus across the board and avoid resistance and disgruntlement between national and county governments in relation to revenue management and administration,” said Mr Oparanya. During the conference, CRA will recognise and award counties that have shown the highest revenue growth for financial years 2014/15, 2015/2016 and 2016/2017.   President says money will be in form of grants based on performance.