Olympia Owira is an assistant director currently working on "Sue na Jonnie", which airs on Maisha Magic East. She is also an actress, a model, and a social media influencer.  1. I’m sure you get this a lot, but, did your parents just love Greece, or want you to be an Olympian, or... My dad is Luo, and you know how we love naming our children after events or stuff that is trending. Mr Owira actually named me after the Olympic Games that were taking place when I was born.  2. Some people choose one job and focus on it for the rest of their lives, what motivates you to play multiple roles? When I was growing up, my aunt was my role model. She used to act in "Tausi". I really wanted to emulate her, to act and be like her. As for directing, my super mentor director Simiyu Barasa asked me to try out for the role, I did, and here I am. With my boss, they trained me for the role. I love the challenge it comes with. As for influencing, I just found myself getting some job opportunities, perhaps due to my line of work.  3. What does being an assistant director entail? It entails a lot, from breaking down scripts, making a shooting schedule (call sheets), being the bridge between the production and the cast and crew, notifying actors when they are required on set, calling the roll (call), maintaining silence on set, making sure that the production meets its shooting dates on time, and making sure that the director gets his vision accomplished. Duties like that, basically, and whatever else comes my way. My journey here was purely through coincidence - I got into production when working on a show called "Lies That Bind", as an actress (Mama Boi). One day, our director Simiyu Barasa asked me if I could shout ‘Action!’ The rest, as they say, is history.  4. What exactly does the term influencer mean? Many claim to be influencers, simply because they have a big following on social media. An influencer is an individual who has the power to affect purchase decisions of others because of his/her authority, knowledge, position or relationship with his/her audience. The term defines an individual who has a following in a particular niche, which they actively engage with. If you follow some trends on social media, some people are influencers but don’t have many followers. Or you may have many followers, but are not an influencer - it can work both ways.  5. I remember seeing you on a billboard advertising the Nation. Are those kind of gigs hard to get? And does it open doors that would previously not open? It was, I believe, one of my biggest projects. (Thanks Nation for giving me that opportunity!) Hard is a big word, no, it is not hard. All you need to know is what your strengths are and audition for the right roles. I doubt being on a billboard makes one a celeb though, especially not here in Kenya! The people who will appreciate you are those that know you – my friends and family were more excited than I was, I was still in shock and could not believe that was me. Never had I envisioned myself on a billboard. I got excited after all the excitement was over.   Ogero is a poet and performer better known as Gufy Dox.