Is it transition time again in the men’s 3,000 metres steeplechase? Or, rather, are we seeing another new kid on the block? That is the question following last weekend’s Prefontaine Classic, the third leg of the IAAF Diamond League series. Of course, it could be premature to talk about transition but last weekend’s 3,000m steeplechase by new boy Benjamin Kigen over Olympic and world champion Conseslus Kipruto has been the talk of the town. Yes! Unheralded Kigen shocked Kipruto and Olympic silver medallist Evan Jager of United States opening another debate about the future of Kenyan steeplechase. This was despite the fact that Kipruto had not lost since 2016. Kipruto appeared in cruise control at the front in the opening laps but in the final lap, he began to wind up the pace and he had unwanted company in the shape of Kigen, who blasted by him, entering the back straight and swiftly opened a gaping advantage. Kipruto simply had no answer to the new kid on the block. So whether the status quo will remain after Prefontaine remains to be seen. Kigen, who hails from Baringo and trains in Ngong, was confident that he can run under eight minutes. Easier said than done? Only time will tell! Kipruto said a bout of malaria he suffered after last month’s Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast could have taken its toll on him, especially in the final lap. He said he felt weak and was unable to respond to Kigen’s kick. He, however, admitted that Kigen could be a major threat going forward, considering he is a former 1,500m runner hence very good with his kick. Kigen was timed at 8:09.07 despite clearing the last barrier in an awkward manner. Kipruto edged Jager in a photo finish for the second place. Indeed, the competition between the two runners is very health for Kenya especially considering that top steeplechasers, who have ruled the discipline for close to 15 years, are headed into retirement. Two-time Olympic and multi-world champion Ezekiel Kemboi, former Olympic and world champion Brimin Kipruto and of course former Olympic 3,000m steeplechase bronze medallist, Paul Kipsiele Koech, have sort of hanged up their spikes and Kigen will be in the good company of Kipruto going forward. We have all been asking what next for steeplechase after Kemboi ,and the answers now don’t seem to be far off. Kigen’s crop of athletes represent the future of steeplechase, which is Kenya’s preserve. Any positive change over the water and barriers should be appreciated!  