Deputy President William Ruto on Friday said all corruption culprits should carry their own cross and face the law. DP Ruto, who was referring to suspects linked to mega scandals in the Agriculture and Public Service ministries, told a gathering in Kisii that he supports heavy penalties against the corrupt and called on investigating agencies to firmly deal with the culprits. Mr Ruto was speaking in the wake of National Youth Service where Sh9 billion is said to have been lost in unscrupulous deals and the National Cereals and Produce Board where senior officers reportedly received kickbacks to accept maize from traders instead of genuine farmers. "The EACC [Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission], DCI [Directorate of Criminal Investigations] and ODPP [Director of Public Prosecutions] will investigate and prosecute all those who will be found to have misappropriated public funds," said the DP. Speaking at St Pauls Nyabururu Teacher's Training College in Kitutu Chache South, Kisii County, where he presided over the graduation of 200 teachers, Mr Ruto said the government will ensure legal action against the culprits is taken. But the anti-graft agencies are independent institutions and do not work under office of the presidency. DEMOS The recent financial scandals have caused uproar online with Kenyans planning to hold nationwide demonstrations on May 31, the eve of Madaraka Day, to protest the perceived “normalisation of corruption” in country. President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy have been challenged to front a solution to the apparent public funds theft that have plagued government institutions since they ascended to the presidency in 2013. Mr Ruto, however, said the Jubilee government does not condone corruption, and that looters should carry their cross when caught. He said those who swindled farmers in the maize scandal, for instance where one trader claimed to have supplied 200,000 bags of maize and had no land, will not be spared. "We want to know how money meant for farmers ended up with traders, businessmen and cartels," he said.   Ms Lilian Mbogo-Omollo and Mr Richard Ndubai to leave office for three months.