Baringo Senator Gideon Moi has been given a one-month notice to vacate an office at the County Assembly. Assembly Clerk Joseph Koech issued the notice on Tuesday, indicating that the decision was made by the County Assembly Service Board. Mr Moi has been occupying the office, labelled “Senator Liaison Office”, since 2013. 'LIMITED SPACE' In a notice dated May 29, 2018, the assembly clerk said the office should be moved out of the assembly due to limited space following on-going construction works. “I write to convey the assembly service board’s decision that you have been served with the above notice. This is due to ongoing construction within the assembly and due to limited space available. “Contractors would like to demolish the current Speaker’s office and thus the reason for the notice,” reads part of the letter. Two months ago, MCAs allied to Jubilee Party demanded that the office be moved, saying it was dormant. Led by Majority Chief Whip Reuben Chepsongol, they said the senator seldom used the office. “Some of our committees at the assembly lack offices and the senator’s office, which has been at the assembly since 2013, is dormant and does not have a secretary, to say the least. We do not see the reason we should lack offices yet the one designated to the senator is dormant,” said Mr Chepsongol. Nominated MCA Francis Kibai said senators were allocated money by the Parliamentary Service Commission to rent offices, adding that Mr Moi should use such money to rent an office elsewhere. Kanu MCAs have, however, opposed the relocation of Mr Moi’s office, saying the move was politically motivated. Earlier this year, there was a scuffle in the precincts of the county assembly after Jubilee representatives clashed with their Kanu counterparts, who vowed to oppose any attempt to kick out Mr Moi. Kanu nominated MCA Betty Birchoko said the move by Jubilee MCAs was well choreographed to intimidate the senator. “We know that the sideshow by Jubilee representatives is meant to intimidate Mr Moi,” said Ms Birchoko.  