Many readers have called to congratulate the Nation for its bold, fresh and robust approach to journalism in which it exposes corruption and seeks to secure public interest. And it is doing this with powerful front-page headlines and a dash of striking images and punchy teasers that invite readers to exciting news in inside pages. It has, indeed, been a time of veritable exposés that began with the May 9 Patel Dam tragedy in Solai, Nakuru County, followed by a series of corruption cases. Frequent Nation critic Caxton Muune calls it a “progressive shift in the NMG news coverage and presentation away from the drab political gossip”, a view echoed by many. He says the Nation is giving more space to news beneficial to the majority of readers and reportage is drifting towards people-centred journalism. In covering the miscarriage of justice in the Pastor James Ng’ang’a trial and the assault of businessman Timothy Muriuki, the Nation has adopted the “stronger language previously confined to the opinion pages in the protection of the public interest”. EDUCATE THE PUBLIC However, he says, the media should educate the public about such disasters as the Solai dam tragedy. He would like NMG to build on the need for educative content and programming to support the mitigation of disasters and protection of the public interest. “The media have traditionally made public calls to action over certain issues, activities and practices that threaten to harm the cause of the common people,” he says. “Calls to action are couched in news coverage with information, procedures and guidelines, which the people can use to impact their lives as repeatedly explained and illustrated by CNN.” In this context, Mr Muune adds, NMG should make a public call to action over the NYS scandal to force tangible action from the relevant agencies. It should go even further and provide the email addresses of public officers and institutions directly involved in the investigations — such as the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, the Attorney-General, Central Bank, National Treasury and Directorate of Criminal Investigation — to write to them. SUPPORT HANDSHAKE On this Madaraka Day, Mr Muune says, he would like the media to rally the public to the support of the “Handshake”, which he says is a most worthy cause. The public should spare a moment to reach out to the next person to exchange greetings and pleasantries on the streets, matatus, schools, mosques, churches, homes, stadiums and such places “to anchor the national healing and reconciliation with the people themselves”. The celebrations, says this American-educated transportation engineer, offer a unique opportunity for national healing. NMG should disseminate information to help the public to organise social activities to support the ‘Handshake’. The public should organise such activities as neighbourhood lawn parties, potlucks, games and keshas “to stitch and patch the battered national fibre networks”. That could help to “build bridges for sustainability of the national reconciliation and stabilisation launched by the Handshake”. NMG EDITORIAL POLICY The Nation’s uninhibited exposés are grounded in the NMG editorial policy. It is the duty of the media, the policy says, to uncover and disclose matters that ought to be subjected to public debate, analysis, scrutiny or criticism in keeping with the universally acknowledged principle that the media’s primary responsibility is to the people. But I think reader Mathew Mwangi should have the last word: “It is good that the media is doing its job to expose corruption. I think all Kenyans can agree that corruption is a cancer that must be fought because it is destroying our nation. “However, the media should not engage in the public lynching of suspects. Every person is presumed innocent until found guilty. As much as Kenyans want to see people pay for their crimes, let the law be followed — otherwise, some innocent people may be caught up in the public ‘baying for blood’. I must say Amen to that. Send your complaints to publiceditor@ke.nationmedia.com. Call or text 0721 989 264  