Dr Bernerd Fulanda is a fisheries biologist with over 20 years’ experience in natural resource management, conservation and fisheries research. He is also a senior lecturer, Marine Science, Fisheries and Oceanography at Pwani University, Kilifi.  What does your work involve? As a fisheries biologist, I wear many hats, but in a nutshell, what I do revolves around the study of fish and their habitats. My work involves collecting data on fish, assessing fish stocks to estimate their population, studying the ecosystem to determine if dynamics such as pollution have an impact on the population of fish, and taking samples to the laboratory for analysis such as maturity stage and fecundity (fertility). Besides that, I lecture fisheries biology at Pwani University and offer consultancy services to various think tanks on fisheries policies, laws and regulations.  Why this career? I was born in Kitui County, and like many children in the 80s, I couldn’t decide whether I wanted to become a doctor, teacher or engineer. I was however certain that I wanted to become a university professor someday because one of our neighbours was a professor at Kenyatta University and I admired how he would be driven home by a chauffeur. When I joined secondary school, I got intrigued with electronics, and it was my first choice of degree courses I was interested studying, but I was selected to study B.Sc. Fisheries at Moi University. My parents and I were unfamiliar with the course, and I remember my father asking whether I would become a fisherman or fishmonger upon graduation. Not knowing the good response to that, I told him that I would be a fisheries officer. I graduated with B.Sc. Fisheries in 1995, though it took me a while before I got a job because then, unlike now, there was not much demand for fisheries biologists. My first title was fisheries officer, back in 1997. Since then, I have held various positions, such as research officer, programme leader, head of station and senior lecturer.  How long does it take to attain the title, Fisheries Biologist? Currently, to become a fisheries biologist, you don’t need to put in very many years of training if well-guided. Focus should be on good grades in Biology at Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) level. You can then pursue a degree in Marine Biology and Fisheries, or Fisheries Biology for four years, and dedicate some years to practical research to qualify as fisheries biologist.   In my case, it took a little longer because I didn’t go straight into marine biology and fisheries, rather, into fisheries biology first. After graduating in 1995, I got a scholarship with UNESCO/Austria Government in June 2000 to study for a Master’s course in Environmental Science and Technology (Limnology and wetlands Ecosystem) and graduated in 2003. My turning point came along in 2006 when I won a scholarship by the Japanese government to study Marine  fisheries/Biology at Kagoshima University. I pursued a new M.Sc. in Fisheries/Biological oceanography, followed by a Doctorate (PhD) in the same field, which was awarded in March 2012. I continued with marine and fisheries research, but late 2013, I felt the need to dedicate more energy towards mentoring young brains rather than just doing research and publishing in scientific journals. I, therefore, joined the academia at Pwani University, Kilifi, where I have embarked on strengthening the training in marine fisheries/biology and oceanography. I am the Programme leader in the Marine Biology & Fisheries, and Oceanography department.  What is a typical day like for a fisheries biologist? No day is similar to another. While some of my days start in the laboratory, there are others that start in the field fishing/sampling/surveys at the Indian Ocean especially for studies on fish stock assessment. On days when the surveys with my students are within mangrove areas, the day will start with tough wades through thick mud among mangroves for survey of mangrove crabs, oysters and others. On other days, I will be doing conference presentations and meeting fellow scientists in various symposia or holding lectures.  How does a young person reading this find their way into this unique job? A good grade in biology is a prerequisite, but given the cluster of subjects needed for the degree programme, you will need to perform well in English, chemistry and mathematics at KCSE level to pursue a degree in fisheries biology. However, if you are curious about physical oceanography, which deals with exploration and scientific study of the oceans and oceans floor, a good grade in physics would be necessary.  What kinds of skills and talents does a potential fisheries biologist need? Anyone interested in taking up this career ought to have key skills in science, ranging from using scientific rules and methods to solve problems to active listening. Good writing and time management skills are also essential. As a fisheries biologist, you must be constantly curious and have good computer skills because the field involves working with large data sets.  What is the best part of your job? A career in fisheries biology is such a diverse field, such that every day is an opportunity to learn something new. I learn while in the field, in the laboratory, and in class. This is a very interesting career. There is never a boring day for me.  There must be challenges though, just like with every other jobs… True. The biggest challenge I face is lack of adequate equipment and funding for research, compared to countries like Europe and Japan where I trained. On the flip side however, marine biology and fisheries students secure world class scholarships to study and train in Europe and Asia, thus shaping their careers in biology to levels at par with students from developed countries. Another challenge I face as a lecturer is that I occasionally come across students who enroll for the course with only biology in mind, forgetting that being a fisheries biologist might crisscross several disciplines, including chemistry, mathematics, physics and English.  How has technology played a key role in your career? Technology remains a key driver in many career fields, and in recent years, my field has highly benefited with some advances in technology, such as use of remotely operated vehicles for underwater surveys, vessels monitoring systems, which have revolutionised the mapping of fishing grounds and advanced microscopy, for instance electron microscopy, for study of tiny crustacean skeletons.  Is this a well-paying career? With 71 per cent of the earth covered by water, fisheries biologists will never be out of jobs. One can find job opportunities at the State Department of fisheries, Kenya Fisheries Service, Country Directorates of Fisheries, environmental departments of institutions and consulting firms. As a fisheries biologist, one should be able to earn at least Sh50, 000 every month.  How do you unwind after work? During my downtime, I like listening and singing along to gospel songs. I also love travelling and adventure, taking cross-country drives. While studying in Japan, I once did a 1, 600 km drive from Kagoshima to Nagoya in Japan.   This love affair started eight years ago and grows stronger by the day.