Q. I was so excited when I joined this tendering company six months ago, ready to grow my career, but ever since I learnt the different stages of tendering, my senior colleagues have been dumping nearly all their assigned work at my desk. I always leave work mentally and physically exhausted. I am now overwhelmed and less passionate about this job. I even feel violated against.  Beginnings, including those of careers, often have more hope and excitement than experience. There is more to be discovered after you start working than you are able to anticipate beforehand. This may include the need to forge and maintain meaningful work relationships with colleagues and a fuller appreciation of the contribution and time required in order for you to meet work expectations. Although it is an encouraging sign that you can be trusted with much work, it is important not to include your health as part of the sacrifice you offer on the altar of your career dreams. Exerting yourself thoroughly is commendable but balance is necessary to prevent the potential adverse effects on your wellbeing. Prepare to apply yourself fully whilst looking after your health, in part through pursuing the benefits of physical exercise, rest and paying attention to your nutrition. Speak to your supervisor concerning your grievance, sharing the view that that while you are excited about your job, you however feel that you are running the risk of ruining your health trying to deal with all that is expected from you. Learn how to manage others’ expectations by indicating when you are unable to achieve expected results within a given period. Seek help when in distress. Are you able to access the assistance of an intern? As you may not have full visibility of their work, it can be tempting to think that your seniors do little more than dump their work on you. Would you be quite sure that they are indolent ditherers dozing idly in their ivory towers? It is easy to think that only you are experiencing the stretch of meeting expectations and making a significant contribution to the organisation. As you speak to your supervisor remember that regardless of the weather, nothing much grows in the comfort zone.   One of my colleagues quit last month and another two are on their way out.