The Teachers Service Commission has released a guideline for the recruitment of primary school teachers. The guidelines released on Monday, require TSC county directors to induct panel members before the commencement of the selection exercise. SELECTION They are also required to conduct a selection exercise for candidates wishing to be employed and present the county merit list to the county selection panel for ratification, which will be submitted to the TSC headquarters. TSC CEO Nancy Macharia said all applicants must be registered by the commission. “The selection panel will be required to exercise the highest degree of transparency and accountability as stipulated in the current Public Officer Ethics Act and TSC Code of Conduct 2015,” said Mrs Macharia. Those without registration certificates, she said, must attach a printout of the online application or copy of the payment receipt of application for registration. For applicants who were previously employed, they should provide details of their TSC number and reasons for termination of service before their consideration for employment Mrs Macharia however said preference will be given to applicants who were not previously employed by the Commission. The commission has also opened up the opportunity to applicants working in other government departments and who meet the requirements. For one to be considered for interviews, the all applicants should be given the serial number on the list against their name when they submit their applications and be informed when to appear before the selection panel, to verify academic and professional certificate before being merited. They are further required to present original and legible photocopies of their identification cards, Kenya Certificate of Primary Education Certificate, Kenya Certificate of Secondary Certificate, Primary Teaching Certificate and both school and college leaving certificates.   New teachers expected to support new policy to have all primary school leavers join secondary.