Ephantus Mugo was barely 18 when he directed his first play in 1999. He was a Form Four student at the time. A neighbouring primary school asked if he could write and direct for them a play for that years drama festivals. The play went ahead to win at the provincial level as well as winning the best producer in the Central Region category. The father of four boys says the win motivated him and started him off on his theatre career on a high note. “My love for theatre started early while at Kiagotho Boys Secondary School. But until that play, I had been writing prose since I was in Form Two.” Mugo wanted to study film production after high school. But at the time, no school was offering the course. “I went to Kenya Institute of Mass Communication in South C, but they were not offering the same. I was encouraged to take up Mass Communication, but I knew I didn’t want to become a journalist.” An uncle advised him to take up Education majoring in English Literature as a second option but even that was still not satisfying at the time. As he took his time to decide what to do next, he went ahead to direct two more plays at the British Council; The Black Out in 2000 and Brief Case in 2001. NOT A WELL-PAYING VENTURE “Theatre was not at the time well paying. Tickets went for Sh 60. I remember one day I borrowed Sh 20 000 from my aunt who was housing me for the production of a play at the Kenya National Theatre. The play made Sh18, 000 and because my colleagues knew we had to pay back the money I had borrowed, as well as pay the talents, they ran away with the money. That is how I was kicked out of the house prompting me to go back to school, ” Mugo recalls, laughing at the memory. He eventually joined a teachers training college in 2008 to study Education. His love for drama was still unrivalled and during his first year, he mobilised a drama club that had four items at the National level. Even when he landed his first job at Nanyuki boys, it was as a drama teacher. He later took up another job as an English teacher at Mary Immaculate Primary school.   In 2009, doors seemingly opened when Kenyatta University introduced a film and theatre class. Mugo enrolled immediately for a diploma. After which he landed a job at the Oshwal Academy in Nairobi as a drama teacher. “Being exposed to the curriculum at Oshwal Academy opened a new thirst in me. The curriculum was more talent-based as opposed to exam based 8-4-4 system. Parents were more eager for their children to join drama, music and sports clubs. However, drama had not penetrated much and I had a tough time competing with music and sports.” GROWING YOUNG TALENT He was now trained on a path for growing young talent. A parent helped identify a space within Parklands area where their children would train in drama after school. “The owner of the premises however warned that if by two weeks I had less than 15 children, then I should just pack and leave. By the first week, I had three children and two were mine, but by the second week I had 30 children.” With that, Gifted Kids Kenya was born. Through Gifted Kids, Mugo now natures young talent through drama with an aim of also building confidence in young children between the ages of three to sixteen. “I believe that every child can do it. Talent is natured and taught.” Mugo recaps Gifted Kids currently operates from three different locations; Kasarani, Ruaka and Ruai where kids meet on Saturdays during school schedule and weekdays when schools are closed. Mugo has trained several teachers who help coordinate the three classes. He hopes to grow the program to other major towns. “My highlight is always the confidence I see grow in children after they go through a programme. Some come when timid and shy but come out of their shells after training.”   