President Uhuru Kenyatta has launched Sh2.7 billion project for reconstruction of roads in 11 constituencies in Nairobi’s Eastlands amid complaints of the poor state of infrastructure in the city’s most populous estates. The upgrade, which is part of the Nairobi Regeneration Programme, will see the repair of more than 80 kilometres of roads in the first phase. The repairs are a pact between the national government and the City Hall in a deal that will see governor Mike Sonko-led government take fewer responsibilities for Nairobi roads. “We have decided to start this programme here before it even goes to other parts of Nairobi occupied by the affluent,” said Mr Kenyatta. The roads covered by the project include Komarock Road, Harambee Estate Sacco roads, Eastern Bypass — Kayole Spin Road, Donholm Phase V and VIII roads, Eldoret Road and Nyasa Road. The national government is contributing Sh1.8 billion of the total cost of the road’s project with the Nairobi County government giving Sh900 million. Various roads in the city are in pathetic conditions and are littered with garbage with potholes. Ongoing rains have rendered some impassable. Garbage has dumped some of the roads and sewage flows freely on others, thanks to poor drainage, triggering public protests in Mwiki estates. City Hall, however, said it had patched most of the roads under its management and appeared to shift blame to the Kenya Urban Roads Authority, which it says is in charge of most roads. Yesterday, Mr Kenyatta directed the contractors awarded tenders for the projects to ensure they are completed by December failure to which they would be penalised including revoking the tenders awarded. He also warned contractors against shoddy work and urged residents to monitor the progress of the project and report to authorities if they see that work is not being done. The Regeneration Programme focuses on housing and settlement, infrastructure and transport, energy, water resources, environment and solid waste, among other activities.  