Sebastien Migne started off his tenure as Harambee Stars coach on a wrong footing after watching as Kenya fell 1-0 to lowly Swaziland in a poorly attended match at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos on Friday. This was Migne's first match in charge of the Stars after taking over from Belgian Paul Put over a month ago. The sloppy Stars were dimmed by a second half goal from Wonder Nhleko that proved enough to guarantee Swaziland the morale-boosting victory before the upcoming Cosafa tournament which starts tomorrow in South Africa. This was the first of two fixtures that had earlier this week caused a protracted spat between Football Kenya Federation and the Kenyan Premier League due to the former's insistence to have the Mashemeji derby, that had been scheduled for this weekend, postponed. The impasse was resolved following the intervention of the Sports Disputes Tribunal, and the league body postponed the derby. In the absence of injured skipper Victor Wanyama, Migne handed Posta Rangers defender Joackins Atudo the armband, with KF Tirana’s Eric Ouma, Joash Onyango and Michael Kibwage all starting in the backline.Kariobangi Sharks forward Ovella Ochieng was the lead striker for the day while Francis Kahata was handed the playmaking duties. Signs of sloppiness were evident early on as Stars struggled to string passes together in the opening 20 minutes while the visitors sat back and waited to pounce on the counter. Goalkeeper Boniface Oluoch almost cost the team in the 18th minute when he left his line early but failed to get to the ball, allowing Felix Bedenhorst to take a dangerous shot which missed the target. Kahata made inroads into the Swaziland defence in the 20th minute, but took too long to pull the trigger before Swaziland defender Lindo Mkhonta intervened. Ovella had the best chance of the first half on 27 minutes, but his shot was saved by Swaziland custodian Sandanezwe Machabela. A header from Whyvonne Isuza in the 35th minute also got the few fans on their feet in anticipation, but missed the target. After the goalless first half, Stars resorted to long balls in search for a breakthrough. Second half substitute Pistone Mutamba, on for Philemon Otieno, beat his marker on the left wing but his thunderbolt went over the bar. Ovella Ochieng had a chance to give the hosts the lead from a free-kick on 68 minutes, with his shot forcing Machabela into a fingertip save to avert danger. All this time, the visitors sat back and watched. Nhleko then punished the Stars’ lethargic backline after he was set through on goal, before beating Oluoch with a low shot. The goal seemed to have roused the hosts, as they began to attack with more purpose afterwards. Mutamba's header with seven minutes to go came crushing off the crossbar much to the chagrin of the few home fans. "Playing away and against a big team like Kenya was very difficult for us and I am satisfied with the single goal. We were lucky to have won, but a draw would have been a more fair result because the game was quite balanced. Otherwise, this has been very good preparation for us as we head to the Cosafa tourney," said Swaziland coach Siza Dlamini.  