When my mother was diagnosed with Diabetes Type 2 in 2016, she started wasting away. She used to weigh over 90kg but today, she barely weighs 40kg. Some people mistake her illness for HIV/Aids. The treatment ranges from tablets, syrups and injections but none seems to work. She has been in and out of hospital for dialysis, organ scans and surgeries but it seems that the more one organ is cleaned up, the more other internal organs are affected. My mother’s name is Norah Kemunto Aberi. In early 2017, she started developing eyesight complications which ranged from blurry vision to reduced scope. Later in the year, her eyesight disappeared completely. Her pupils changed from black to white. Her body joints are feeble and can’t support even her negligible weight. She is completely dependent on other people, even when she is going for a call of nature or eating. NO APPETITE She has no appetite to speak of, even after taking multivitamin dosages as prescribed by the doctors. Some people claim she has been bewitched. When relatives visit, they talk about how the once chubby woman is a pale shadow of herself. I recently lost my job after seeking permission too many times to check on her health. As the firstborn, sometimes I receive urgent calls that demand emergency travelling. My workplace was in Nakuru and my mother was in Kisii. UNFALTERING DREAMS Despite her illness, my mother remains my greatest source of hope and the embodiment of unfaltering dreams. Every time I visit her, she tells me: “Son, always make conscious decisions in life.” My mother has great hope in me. Even in her blindness, she always holds my hand tight and says: “Son, thank you for visiting.” My mother was born in 1978. According to me, she is still young. Her sickness has made me sink deep into research to understand her medical state. I used to think that such ailments are for the old people. My research revealed that diabetes affects even young children. My mother may be unwell but I want to use this opportunity to tell her that she still remains my greatest treasure. Some people may fail to understand what it means to have a bedridden mother. Happy Mother’s Day mum. *** Please follow the Twitter hashtag #MothersDayKE for more stories like this.   Sometimes I feel like a hybrid of a lion tamer and a wizard because of my nature-nurture role.