Father’s Day is a significant event that helps us celebrate our fathers. Although it comes once a year, 29-year-old Regina Wanjiru Mureithi feels she has every reason to celebrate her father every day. “Growing up in Kirinyaga wasn’t easy. My dad Moses Mureithi Kamendi, now 67, was a primary school teacher while my mum was and still is a peasant farmer. We were just an ordinary family of seven.” Even with his meagre earnings, her father took care of all his children and also took up the responsibility of educating four of Regina’s cousins. “I remember a day when my dad literally walked with torn shoes. He had sacrificed all his money to provide for us. It was during this time, when I was in primary school, that he developed high blood pressure. He has been taking daily medication ever since.” Regina’s father instilled strict discipline in his children when they were young, believing in shaping their characters at a tender age. As a result, all of them have only praise for him. There was no shortcut but to get educated, and perform well in school as he was and still is a strong believer in education. The community around also experienced his strict character. And during his free time, Moses counsels youth against substance abuse and encourages them to attend church services. SACRIFICE “When I was 25 years old, I fell sick and had to undergo surgery twice. I had to visit clinics every month. My family ran out of finances and my parents had to sell cattle and a piece of land to cover the high medical bills. “After the first surgery, I couldn’t bring myself to tell my dad I needed a second one and I had to do so through my aunt. I was worried about him as he had exhausted his savings.” But her father willingly shouldered the financial burden, sold a piece of their land and sought help from his friends. As Moses was also the only working child in his family, he had to share his salary between his own family and the extended family every month. This took a toll on him. And after he retired, he had to seek a part-time teaching job in a private school to ensure that apart from proceeds from farming, he could still make sufficient money to take care of his family and pay school fees for his youngest son, who is still in university. “My dad stands out and I have every reason to keep celebrating him. There’s nothing I can give him that will be equal to the sacrifices he made and still makes for us. His name is not new to his village; the respect he gets is a result of the extent he goes to, to help everyone. OUR PILLAR “He has been the pillar to my family and our community. He’s always been a good man – a hard worker, volunteer, churchgoer and encourager.” Moses believes in giving and whenever his family asks him why he goes the extra mile to help everyone, he says: “The hand that gives always receives”. He always attends fundraisings and interacts freely with everyone. The heart of a child is beautifully designed to respond to a father’s love, and Regina has experienced her father’s love in all forms. He has supported her decisions and encouraged her, and she believes she can count on him for anything. “God knew long before we showed up on this earth that we’d be family. He knew that my dad’s strengths and struggles would come together with my own to create a relationship, and it would be a journey. “Through the years, I’ve come to realise that my dad always worked to be the best father he could be. And I’ve discovered how deeply he cares for me even if he shows it in different ways than I expect. In fact, today, I can truly say that he is one of my best friends.” The actions of a father speak volumes to his children. Even if they can’t understand it when they’re young, they’re watching and learning. And even if they won’t admit it, when they’re older, there’s a strong pull to follow in his footsteps. When a father chooses the right path, his family is blessed. This is what Regina appreciates most about her dad. ***What would you like your dad to know this Father’s Day? Can you say it in 800 words? Email: lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com   The last Father’s Day I had with him, I bought him a pair of socks and gave him a hug.