The war against corruption must continue relentlessly and culprits held accountable, National Assembly Majority Leader Aden has said. Mr Duale, who addressed the media at Parliament on Tuesday, said the National Assembly has made a commitment and will not sit back as public funds are looted by selfish individuals. He made the comments as Public Service and Youth Affairs Principal Secretary Ms Lillian Mbogo and National Youth Service Director- General Mr Richard Ndubai among others were arraigned in court over the loss of Sh9 billion from the NYS coffers. JUSTICE “The investigative authorities as established under the Constitution have the mandate to go full swing and have those implicated in the graft face justice in court,” Mr Duale said adding; “parliament will always endeavour to support this cause.” Ms Mbogo and Mr Ndubai are on the list of 54 public officers and business entities that the Director of Public Prosecutions has charged in court for abuse of office, conspiracy to commit an offense of corruption, willful failure to comply with applicable procedures and guidelines on public finance management. The other charges are breach of trust by a public officer, willful neglect to perform official duty and fraudulently making payments from public revenues for goods not supplied. Other individuals charged alongside public servants them include proprietors of business entities that were paid public funds for supplying nothing at the NYS. The DCI is also investigating the Sh2 billion maize scandal at the National Cereals and Produce Board, the Sh600 million flawed procurement process at the Kenya Pipeline Company and irregular award of multi-million tenders and the Kenya Power. Mr Duale urged the investigative agencies, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the auditor-general as well as the DPP to be professional in their work “if this country has to realise meaningful development.” WAR ON GRAFT Mr Duale also challenged the opposition to join forces with President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto to ensure that the war on graft is won. “It is also the cardinal responsibility of the opposition to support the president and his deputy as they purge corrupt elements from the system,” Mr Duale said. President Kenyatta, who was re-elected in 2017, has given an undertaking to ensure that looters of public resources are held accountable as he prepares to leave a good legacy at the end of his second and final five-year term. The deputy president has also said stressed Kenyans should not suffer because of few individuals who have misappropriated public resources.   CS Sicily Kariuki, who was at the held of Youth Affairs ministry at the time, not among those questioned or arrested.