Late last year, I attended a burial somewhere in Nyeri. The preacher of the day was the unapologetic kind, you know, the kind that does not bother to be politically correct. After he was done with his nonconformist sermon — one where he urged the deceased’s family to, by all means, mourn but not mourn for too long because their loved one wouldn’t care anyway because he was dead — he decided to add a sidebar. DUMPING Allow me to paraphrase what he said. “This is directed to those who travelled here from Nairobi — look around you, if you haven’t. Do you see how clean your surroundings are? Do you see any litter around you? I’m sure you don’t. I know you are used to being surrounded by trash in Nairobi. Here, however, we don’t litter because we care about our environment. "This is therefore a humble request from me to you that you leave this place as clean as you found it. If you have thrown an empty water bottle on the ground, sweet wrappers, banana peels or whatever else, please respect your hosts and pick them up because this is not a garbage dump.” True enough, “Nairobi people” had discarded empty water and juice bottles on the ground as well as sweet and biscuit wrappers. You should have seen the embarrassed looks and uneasy smiles they gave each other as they bent to pick up their rubbish. I am mortified to confess that I was one of the guilty “Nairobi people” who had littered our host’s clean homestead — the plastic wrapper that had covered the bottle top of my bottled water accusingly stared at me from the ground. This incident brought to the fore how the majority of us are careless with facilities that don’t belong to us -- facilities in public places, which are someone else’s responsibility to keep clean and safeguard. I see this carelessness even in places of work, where employees, for instance, have to be reminded to keep the washrooms as clean as they found them, or close taps after washing their hands. Whenever I see such notices on walls or doors in the various public facilities I have used, I am perturbed, and often wonder whether those who misuse them behave the same way in their homes. How I would like to be a fly on the walls of their homes. On second thought, maybe not. RESPECT OTHER'S PROPERTY Easy come, easy go. I’m sure you’ve heard of that phrase, which aptly describes the don’t-care attitude with which we human beings handle freebies, stuff that we haven’t sweated for. If someone gave me Sh10,000 out of the blues today, I would probably go on a thoughtless shopping spree and use the money to buy things that I don’t need and will probably never use, instead of, say, save the money for a rainy day. If that 10k was my hard-earned money however, I would be thoroughly prudent with it, and not a shilling would go to waste. Unfortunately, we treat other people’s property with the disdain with which we treat freebies, as long as we didn’t pay for it, and as long as we don’t own it, then anything goes. Years ago, I visited a relative who lived in a rented flat in one of the estates on the outskirts of the city. The first thing that caught my attention when she welcomed me into her house were the scribblings on all the four walls of her living room, a child’s scribblings done using all the colours of the rainbow. I remember wondering whether she would have allowed her three-year-old to desecrate her living space like this had she owned the house. But it was rented, and she would not live here forever, so why bother? If we learnt to treat with respect what belongs to others as much as we hold in high esteem what belongs to us, the world would be a much better place. Food for thought, isn’t it?  The writer is the editor, MyNetwork, in the Daily Nation.   What we should be embarrassed about is that most of us can’t speak Kiswahili well, or our mother tongue.