Q  Our HR department recently brought a medical service provider to conduct wellness check-ups on employees. A colleague discouraged me from going for the check-up, saying that the company does not really care about us, rather, is looking after its own interests, that it was just out to ensure that we are being as productive as possible. Does she have a point?  Owing to the growing recognition of its role and importance in underwriting employee productivity, wellness has in the recent past taken an increasingly greater proportion of HR discourses. It is therefore not surprising that your organisation has taken up a wellness initiative, the prevalence of which is common, especially among organisations seeking to enhance their employee value propositions. A successful corporate wellness programme is usually a long-term commitment as most of its envisaged benefits take time to manifest themselves. In varying degrees, the aspects covered by such programmes include physical and mental wellness, with others including financial, social and spiritual dimensions. Certain benefits may accrue to organisations as a result of implementing employee wellness initiatives. Owing to their potential to prevent common chronic illnesses such as heart disease, stroke and cancer, which account for a significant portion of organisational healthcare costs, properly executed wellness programmes may help tame operating costs for organisations. By participating in a wellness programme, employees could therefore contribute to the bottom line of their organisations in terms of greater potential for productivity and healthcare cost savings. Wellness, however, matters even more at a personal level. There is hardly any sphere of an employee’s life that would not profit from physical and mental wellness. If you reap value from your commitment to wellness, it constitutes wealth that your employer cannot take away from you. Consider participating in the wellness initiative aware that, in any event, the potential for greater productivity and healthcare cost savings could still be yours to benefit from even if you were to run your own business. So while it is true that the company might draw dividends from your wellness, it is also true that physical fitness, distance from illness and a sound mind remain not on the company’s asset register, but on yours.   He casually mentioned that he would be going upcountry over the weekend to consult a witchdoctor.