Tana River Governor Dhadho Godhana and his predecessor Hussein Dado clashed during a meeting with Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa on Monday. The two, who have been at war with each other, met when Mr Dado, who is Devolution Chief Administrative Secretary, turned up for a meeting between Governor Godhana and Mr Wamalwa. Mr Godhana did not want his predecessor to be part of the meeting and expressed his displeasure. “Let me be straight forward here, I wish Dado was not here. He is campaigning against me. He is messing me up, that is why I don’t want him here,” said the governor. Mr Godhana accused Mr Dado of using relief food to undermine his leadership whenever he visited the county by “inciting residents.” Mr Godhana said his predecessor had turned a government emergency initiative into a campaign tool. Mr Godhana told Mr Wamalwa the national government ought to coordinate with the county government in carrying out emergency activities, saying that the way things had been done was not right. In response, Mr Dado said he was touched by the plight of the people and felt his urgent intervention was needed. RUTO On Tuesday, Deputy President William Ruto has moved to end rivalry between the two leaders. Mr Ruto said Mr Dado should respect Mr Godhana and give him time to serve locals. While speaking in Garsen where he launched a relief food distribution, Mr Ruto called on Mr Dado to respect the tenure of his successor as he was elected by the majority in the county. "I call on the former governor to work with and respect the current governor, as he is the leader of this county, elected by the majority in the county,” he said. Mr Ruto said there was no need for competition between the two, and that it would be better if the two worked together for the benefit of locals. He further warned that one's opportunity to serve in the national government, did not provide a window to frustrate others elected by a majority in the county. "For you who we are giving jobs at the national government, we are not doing that so that you can come and frustrate your colleagues in the county, I therefore urge that you work and respect their roles in the county, they were elected, but you were nominated,” he said. Mr Ruto said the national government was committed to saving Tana River residents from frequent floods and food scarcity.  