Fight me. Nothing is better than breakfast food, for so many reasons! Number one: It's so easy to make. Unlike breakfast, dinner and brunch, which comes a close second, breakfast food is simple, and straightforward, and you're not spending hours slaving over a hot stove/counter-top/oven to make something for people to eat in the morning, unless you're that type of person and/or have a personal chef, in which case, more power to you, and one day I want to be you. Outside of the fancy muffins et al, pancakes take a quick second to make. Add water, make tea, rustle up a couple of eggs and you're good to go. You don't really have to prepare fruit either. Or oats, or porridge. It's honestly a win-win situation, because you're getting your power protein kick for the day without having to do much in the morning.   And who wants to do much in the morning? Number two: No one needs to lose sleep making it. Which is an emphasis on point b. Number three: It can be eaten at any time. All breakfast food is food that can be eaten during the day as a light healthy snack (think granola/muesli), a sugar kick (fruit) or an actual meal (like huevos rancheros. All eggs are appropriate for all times of the day, particularly post-club revelries. So obviously, some of my favourite restaurants are those that serve breakfast all day or have amazing brunches. I like to try out breakfast menus as often as possible, but since many places don't serve breakfast all round every day and I wake up at 10 more often than not or later – I know, sue me – and so my testing happen often. One day my friend Diana dragged me out of the house at an unseasonably early hour (9 am) and so before we ran our errand we stopped for breakfast. Fortunately my stomach had started to wake up by the time we got to the desired destination, which, for that morning, was Le Grenier Au Pain. THE SMELL OF FRESH BREAD Le Grenier is located on Riverside Drive, in an office building with smells of fresh bread that feel like they grab you by the nose and pull you into the establishment like something from a Disney movie. It's a simply arranged space, with minimalist chairs and tables all holding a yellow sunflower in a red vase at the centre. The menu also serves as your place mat, which I've always thought is cool, and the waitress takes your order on a little iPad, which one would hope leaves no room for error.   So aside from the décor, still on the plus side, they make fresh bread – it is a French bakery, after all – and they have a nice little seating area outside, in case you want to bask in Nairobi's breezes in this rainy season – again, no judgement here. I had a mocha, which I usually start my breakfast with, not because I need something to wake me up, but because coffee has antioxidants and that is literally the only reason I drink it, unless I want to go to the bathroom. Coke has the same effect – on the bathroom, not the antioxidant. But let me stop talking about bowel movements. I then ordered scrambled eggs and delicious sausages, which cost about 900 and are pictured above. A mocha is 250. Now, because it is a French restaurant, the portions are also very French.   When I say French, I mean small. It isn't a negative, it is a culture of food after all – but I always fear that I won't get full after eating at Le Grenier. It'll be very tasty, definitely, and I'll clear my whole plate, but I will always feel like I need to order one more croissant or two. Thankfully, the breakfast always comes with a bread basket, which I promptly proceed to usually clear as well. But you're not supposed to east super large meals in the morning anyway, right? Isn't that what the experts say? Maybe I'm just being greedy. Then again, the ham and cheese breakfast croissant that Diana had was good, and sizeable. Fortunately or unfortunately, she wasn't feeling particularly hungry that morning, and so, I did what any good friend would do – I helped her finish it. :D  *** Wondering where to get the 411 on what's happening in Nairobi's foodie scene? There's a lot of places you could go, but here's where we want you to be – getting the dish on the dish. Get it? We knew you would.   I usually expect the same standards of food and service in every branch of a franchise.