My mother had been ill for quite a while. A few years ago, she went into a coma for a few hours but later regained full consciousness. She told those who were attending to her that she still had some things to settle before departing to be with the Lord Jesus. One of the things on her agenda was me, her youngest daughter. She recovered fully from her stroke and embarked on a mission to see me out of my abusive marriage. She stated categorically that there was no amount of dowry that could justify a husband mistreating his wife. If anything, dowry can be sent back! She did not relent, until I brought her the court papers showing that I was now freed from the harrowing marriage. She sang all the praise hymns she could remember and rejoiced in God’s faithfulness. Several years after she had achieved the three things that caused her to come back from the near-death experience, she fell ill again. I spent some time with her and she shared with me her story. MY MOTHER’S STORY My mother was born in the early 1920s. Her mother died when she was hardly nine years old. She had four siblings – two older sisters and a brother, and a younger sister. Her older siblings were already married, so it was just my mother and her younger sister left under the care of their drunken dad when their mother died. It became the responsibility of the nine-year-old girl to fend for her younger sister and dad, and it was no mean feat. From the day my grandmother died, my grandfather was keen on marrying off my mother so he could acquire animals to pay dowry for a new wife. He began to organise with prospective suitors to capture her – as was the practice then – but my mum was an ‘antelope’ of a girl. She eluded all attempts to capture her until she was 13 years old. My grandfather could not wait any longer. He ‘arrested’ her and sold her to a suitor– an old man. By the time my mother was 14, a child by any standards, she had become a mother. Her husband was the devil re-incarnate. The life of my mother and her child were constantly in danger. ESCAPE Many times she escaped to safety, but she would be captured and returned to face even more severe punishment. With time she learnt not to rise to provocation. Her husband devised another way of provoking her so that she would always receive a beating. He would snatch her baby from her arms and dangle the baby over flames. My mother would dash to rescue her baby, and she would receive a beating. Somehow, the baby did not die but remained with scars of the torture. At 15 years, mum thought she was smarter, so she ran to the then colonial authorities for reprieve. Unfortunately, men can team up. The colonial governor had her flogged and returned to her husband. Mum was a spirited girl. She ran away again with her baby, and this time fell at the feet of a judge when court was in session. She clung to his feet and no amount of flogging or pulling would make her loosen her grip on his legs. The judge finally ordered them to stop flogging her and asked her to tell him her story. She did. Her evidence was the scarred baby who had been held over flames time and again. The judge issued an order of separation and had her taken to relatives far away for safety. Needless to say, my grandfather and her husband pursued her to her safe haven and ejected her. The judge had them arrested and flogged, and granted her divorce, instructing my grandfather to return the dowry. The judge also pronounced blessings over her to the effect that she would get a caring husband, and she would be mother to men and women of standing in the society. RESCUED Grandfather had no animals to return, since he had already paid dowry for his new wife. Once again, he embarked on selling my mother and her child so he could get animals to return the dowry of the man she had divorced. After various failed attempts, my mother could not take it anymore. She took her baby and walked into the forest with the intent of hanging herself and the baby. She looked into the eyes of her baby and saw such love and affection that she could not bring herself to harm him. She had to think of another way. She therefore walked towards the large river that passed through the forest and stood at the river bank sobbing for a long time. Then she placed her three-year-old baby down and began walking away so that she could jump into the river out of his sight. The baby, however, clung to her leg in the same manner that she had clung on to the judge. He cried so loudly that his cries attracted the attention of some men who were hunting in the forest. The men rescued them. The men took mother and child back to their relatives’ house. NEW BEGINNINGS My mother found that there was a visitor in the home. She was informed that the visitor was there on account of her. She looked at him and noted that he was an old man, but he had this aura of gentleness and respect that she had not seen in any of her relatives or any other man for that matter. He explained his visit to her, and the deal was sealed. She did not have to be captured or sold again. He brought the dowry required and took her away. They lived as husband and wife for many years and had many sons and daughters – seventeen in total, including her son who would not let her jump into the raging river. She was the most hardworking woman I have ever seen. She and my father fed us and sent all of us to school and nursed all of us to health when we were sick. Her children are judges, doctors, teachers, preachers and respectable members of the society, just as the judge blessed her. Happy Mothers’ Day mama. *** Please follow the Twitter hashtag #MumstoriesKEfor more stories like this.   The most powerful memory I have of my mother, Agnes Moraa Monayo, is of her crying.