A woman has been fined Sh500,000 after she was convicted of receiving a Sh2,500 bribe to help in processing of a birth certificate. Ms Justinah Syonzua Malela, a mother of two and a former clerk at Huduma Centre in Kibra, will spend two years in prison if she fails to raise the fine. The court heard that Ms Malela committed the offence on September 8, 2016 while working for the Ministry of Interior as a clerk. BIRTH CERTIFICATE She had asked for Sh3,000 from Ms Naomi Syombua Musyoka, who wanted a birth certificate for her nephew, as he prepared to sit his secondary education national examinations. Evidence tabled in court showed that Ms Musyoka met Ms Malela through a friend, who told her that she could assist her get the birth certificate. She said she called Ms Malela who promised to deliver the birth certificate in a day, if she sent the money. Ms Musyoka said she pleaded with her to reduce the amount to Sh1,500 but she refused and they finally settled on Sh2,500. “I sent the money to her through M-Pesa but she failed to deliver the birth certificate as promised,” she said. Ms Musyoka said she sent the details of her nephew to Ms Malela on the Whatsapp messaging app. She said the former clerk promised to get it the following day, alleging that it had not been signed. But when she called her the following day, she did not pick her calls. The woman then decided to visit the centre in Kibra and found the manager, Ms Alice Shiundu, who advised her to report the matter to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. It was then Ms Malela sent back the money when she discovered that the matter was being investigated. In mitigation, Ms Malela pleaded with the court for leniency saying she regretted the incident but the Chief Magistrate Douglas Ogoti ruled that her actions were a clear indication of a corrupt act and that she took advantage of an innocent parent. He directed her to pay a fine of Sh250,000 each for receiving a bribe and abuse of office or serve two years for each count. The sentences will run concurrently, meaning that she will only serve two years if she fails to raise the fine.  