Residents of Pate Island in Lamu East have introduced a new rules to curb early marriages, unwanted pregnancies and divorce. The island, which is inhabited by the Swahili of Bajuni origin, has in the past experienced high school dropout rate among girls and boys as a result of early marriages. Speaking to journalists in Pate on Sunday, Mr Ahmed Abii, a village elder, said all those intending to get married now have to undergo mandatory vetting by a selected committee appointed by the Pate Council of elders. The marriage vetting committee comprises of elders who have been married for over 30 years. ID CARD Mr Abii said those seeking to get married must also present a valid national ID card to the elders. This, he said, will ensure that only young men and women who are 18 years old and above get married. He says no one without an ID card will be allowed to marry of get married even if they are over the age of 18. “We decided to come up with the issue of ID card to stop people from getting married at tender ages and also to tame paedophiles who prey on young girls. It will also enable people know that the marriage institution is only for the mature,” said Mr Abii. The elder said Pate was having a hard time containing increased cases of divorce. He said the many children born of such marriages suffer as parents wrangle and eventually divorce. DIVORCE “Nowadays young people get married today and divorce after a few months, that’s not what marriage should be,” added Mr Abii. Another elder Khalid Sharif said ever since the marriage vetting committee was formed, many people now treat the marriage institution with the respect it deserves. According to Mr Sharif, the rate of divorce has also decreased. “I am happy that people now know why they are in their marriages to stay. They also know that divorce is not the solution to family rows. As elders, we teach young people on the need to keep off illicit sex,” said Mr Sharif. The elders warned parents who secretly marry off underage girls that their days are numbered. PARENTS ARRESTED Mr Mohamed Athman said it was unfortunate that some parents in Lamu have turned their daughters into trade items to be married off to highest bidders. “Our committee shall ensure that such parents arrested and charged. There are no shortcuts to marriage. It’s either you are above 18 and have an ID or there is no marriage for you,” said Mr Athman. Pate residents said they were in full support of the newly devised rules saying this has boosted morals among young people. The move is also said to have boosted the education of girls as there are no more forced marriages. “We are happy as a community, boys or girls are in school,” said Mr Omar Duko.  