In the past few weeks, the media have been awash with arrests and arraignment of high-profile individuals in relation to various offences. The cases of Migori Governor Okoth Obado and TV news anchor Jacque Maribe are examples. Several were denied bail. In one case, the court denied the accused person bail on the ground that there were still other potential prosecution witnesses who had not recorded their statements. It was the court’s view that because of that, there was a big chance on the part of the accused to interfere with potential witnesses as well as any ongoing investigations. In denying an application for bail, the court must be convinced that the accused had, indeed, attempted to tamper with potential witnesses. The mere likelihood or chance of interference is not sufficient ground for denial of bail. BAIL Instructively, holding a position of influence is not enough ground for denial of bail. The burden is on the prosecution to demonstrate that the accused has actually used or attempted to use their position to interfere with investigations. In fact, it is a position of law that all persons must be treated equally before the law. The Constitution is explicit on the rights of arrested persons. Article 49 provides for bail or bond on reasonable conditions, pending a charge or trial, unless there are compelling reasons against the release of such persons or accused persons. In addition, some of the compelling reasons for denial of bail may include the possibility of the accused being a flight risk or lacking a fixed abode. The same applies to suspects who are yet to be charged in court. One is deemed a suspect until they are charged or discharged. DETENTION The growing practice of investigating officers filing applications seeking to detain individuals for a number of days as investigations continue is worrying, especially in the current constitutional dispensation. Whereas it is important for police officers to carry out investigations, the practice is subject to abuse. In some instances, applications are filed and heard in the absence of such suspects! What became of the rule of fair hearing? In granting detention orders, the courts must interrogate the reasons for the application and balance it with the rights of the suspects. Of what benefit is an order detaining a suspect for several days in a police station? Courts have more than often granted such prayers “in the interest of justice”. RIGHTS Does that apply to the accused as well? Before granting such prayers, courts must be convinced for what reasons they are being sought and the timelines should be such as not to abuse the rights of suspects. In addition, upon lapse of the granted period, the officers must file and supply the court and the suspect with what would have emanated from their investigations. Courts must equally be flexible in their approach to such applications. Where it is not necessary to detain a suspect, courts can set bail terms that will guarantee their rights. That includes requiring the suspect to report to the police station as required until conclusion of investigations. The practice of prosecution counsel opposing all applications for bail regardless of the circumstances must be frowned upon. The right to bail is a constitutional entitlement and must be granted to all accused persons unless on very compelling grounds. After all, an accused person is deemed innocent until found guilty by a competent court. Mr Murere is an advocate of the High Court of Kenya. kennedymurunga@gmail.com  