Makueni County shines among all our devolved units for a variety of reasons, chief of which is the simple but hugely effective experiment in pursuing universal health coverage for the residents. Additionally, Governor Kivutha Kibwana’s participatory model of resource allocation and implementation has resulted in increased public confidence in their own abilities and a growing sense of ownership of county infrastructure and services. Livelihoods are improving and one expects that if the county continues on this trajectory, poverty levels will plummet and all socio-economic indicators will improve dramatically. Practically all commentators agree that Prof Kibwana has demonstrated a rare combination of humility and firmness in his leadership approach. He is humble enough to listen to the “lowliest” of all his residents, but so firm that he was willing to have his government and the county assembly dissolved after the ward representatives held his government hostage clamouring for handouts he was not ready to give. LEADERSHIP Kenyans from all walks of life are talking about the success of the Makueni model of leadership, and some are beginning to wonder if this is not the kind of leadership we should be talking about at the national level. This brings us to the “Apende Asipende” campaign. Some of us have decided that despite his insistence that he will retire after his current term in office, Governor Kibwana must run for president at the next election. Whether he likes it or not (Apende asipende in Kiswahili). My own observation is that it takes so little to excite us about good leadership. Prof Kibwana has done exactly what he promised he would do should he be elected to lead Makueni County, and for that, we are waxing lyrical about his abilities and moving sentiment towards a presidential run. FEAR The “Apende Asipende” movement demonstrates the desperation within the chattering classes for some semblance of sane leadership in the governance desert that Kenya has been for several decades now. It should worry the current national leadership, even if for a moment, that there are Kenyans who are actually looking out for real leadership and not the current model of crowd-pleasing platitudes so beloved of the fossils in power. Unfortunately, it does not take a genius to unpack the psyche of those clamouring for a Kivutha Kibwana presidency today. We know they are impressed by his leadership style, but we also know that they are not completely cleansed of their ethnopolitical sins. TRIBALISTS They are still tribalists at heart, and are only fetishising Governor Kibwana to assuage their momentary guilt at how much their choices have destroyed this country. The guilt will certainly dissipate within the next couple of years, and by the next elections, Governor Kibwana will have been caricatured and ridiculed beyond recognition, and we will all then face back where we think our ethnic roots are, and vote for our perceived tribal saviour. Atwoli is an associate professor of psychiatry and dean, Moi University School of Medicine lukoye@gmail.com  