Long-serving MP Maina Kamanda’s speech at the burial of Benga musician Joseph Kamaru on Thursday that Kikuyus are not for sale politically sent shock waves across Mt Kenyatta region. His words brought to the fore a debate that has been raging on the political direction Mt Kenya region will take after the exit of President Uhuru Kenyatta from the political scene. Since 2013 and up to the election day in 2017, Mr Kenyatta used every opportunity to remind everyone that his preferred successor was his deputy William Ruto. He would say this both in Mt Kenya region and other parts of the country. When campaigning in central Kenya, he would switch to Kikuyu in the presence of Mr Ruto and beseech voters to vote for him. He would also urge them to prepare to vote for “kamwana gaka” (this young man) in 2022. SUCCESSION REMARK At one time, he stated that Jubilee would be in power for 20 years with him doing 10 years and Mr Ruto going for another 10, drawing the ire of the opposition. All this camaraderie talk has now dissipated. Since he was sworn in for second term, the President is yet to repeat the succession remark he often uttered in his first term. His appearances with Mr Ruto have been fewer and far between. Instead, Mr Kenyatta extols the March 9 handshake he had with opposition leader Raila Odinga. Mr Kenyatta is credited to having said that Mr Ruto is well known for “kutangatanga’ (moving aimlessly), a remark that the latter took in his stride. To his credit, Mr Ruto has not shown any signs of strain in their relationship despite Mr Kenyatta’s loud signals. CAREFULLY SELECTED Mr Ruto has instead been making numerous trips to central Kenya where he has point men in every county. These point men have in the past stated that they are under immense pressure from unmanned people to stop associating themselves with Mr Ruto. Politically, Mr Kenyatta and Mr Odinga have been reading from the same script and Mt Kenya leaders have been wondering whether the President also supports the call for a referendum, just like his new-found political friend. Most MPs from central have been aligning their political message with that of Mr Ruto to the chagrin of close friends of Mr Kenyatta. It is perhaps in this backdrop that Mr Kamanda made his speech. His carefully selected words were uttered in Kikuyu and in the presence of Mr Kenyatta, Mr Ruto and Mr Odinga. WENT FOR JUGULAR “We as Kikuyu do not have another leader or spokesman except President Kenyatta. Even after five years into your retirement Mr President, you will still be our spokesman. Some people (read Kikuyu MPs) should stop taking Kikuyus for granted. Kikuyus will not to be taken to market place to be sold like commodities,” thundered Mr Kamanda. He went on to extol the handshake which he said has cooled off the fights between Kikuyus and Luos. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria in his characteristic self-went for the jugular when asked about the remarks made by Mr Kamanda. “I am not aware of a market place, neither a seller, nor a buyer, nor a transaction price for Kikuyus. I am equally surprised to learn that there has been a fight between Kikuyus and Luos. What we have had are candidates from Luo and Kikuyu communities. Some have won and some have lost. Losing an election is not a national crisis to warrant constitutional change,” he said. PUBLICLY DISAGREED Though the respect that President Kenyatta enjoys in the mountain region cannot be underestimated, it his relations with its elected leaders that has always been a problem. Publicly, the MPs have supported the President, but during the passing of the contentious Finance Bill several MPs publicly disagreed with his position. Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wah laughed off at Mr Kamanda’s remarks. “If Kamanda has been selling Kikuyus in some market then it is good to know he has come to the realisation that people are not for sale. The Kikuyu nation is, however, one of enterprising people who respect and honour hard work and have a dislike for opportunists,” he said.   The President has to contend with the deep rivalry between his deputy and ODM leader.