Coast legislators allied to Deputy President (DP) William Ruto have accused the government of crippling the region’s economy but vowed to continue backing his 2022 presidential bid. Led by Coast Parliamentary Group (CPG) chairman Suleiman Dori (Msambweni), the members of parliament (MPs) said major projects such as the Lamu Port South Sudan Ethiopia Transport (Lapsset) corridor and the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) have not benefitted locals. PETITION This was the first time that the MPs, mainly from the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) and who have shown support for Mr Ruto, hit at President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration over projects in the region. Following the March 9 handshake between the president and opposition leader Raila Odinga, they announced that they will support Mr Ruto and ensure he succeeds President Kenyatta, who is serving his second and final term. They have been accompanying the DP to launch various projects in the coast, occasions at which they praised the government for its initiatives. At a meeting at Voyager Hotel in Mombasa County on Monday, however, they asked how the coast will benefit from the projects. The Voyager meeting brought together 15 lawmakers, who said they will present a petition in Parliament for details on these benefits. Their discussions touched on matters including transportation; they demanded that the government revives towns along the railway line as they are 'dying' due to transportation of goods using trains. They noted that trucks are off the roads yet thei drivers and conductors boosted trade. "DYING TOWNS" Mr Baya said it is unfortunate that the Lapsset project seems not to benefit Lamu residents. He said the involvement of coast people in the Sh2.5 trillion project means they should "come before any other people". “We are going to take this forward and ensue that the Lapsset project benefits the people and that the economy of this region prospers because of the investment we have seen. We want to see the benefits of the money being invested in our region,” he said. On the SGR, Mr Baya said the road transport sector has 'died' and that thousands of locals have lost their jobs “because their opportunities have been grabbed by the train mode of transport". “Coastal towns are now dying because they relied on road transport and because of insistence on the use of the SGR. We are doing more harm than good to the coast economy hence the need for the government to relook the whole strategy." The MPs further regretted that the government is investing in natural resources in the region yet locals are not reaping anything out of its initiatives. Mr Baya said they will take their grievances to Parliament to get answers. ELECTION The MPs are to meet on November 5 to agree on how to push for locals’ interests. Regarding the next general election, however, Kilifi North MP Owen Baya, who spoke on behalf of the rest, said, "We have made it clear that we must, by all means, be in the government as a region. But our meeting today is mostly on the development of our region." The lawmakers appeared to be reacting to a Mt Kenya MPs' meeting in Nakuru County during which they discussed their political future Mr Baya said Mt Kenya MPs can continue pushing for the referendum "for President Kenyatta to become Prime Minister (PM) come 2022". “Every region has a right to discuss what it want aso we wish them well. If they have decided they are vouching for the president to be the next PM ... that is their right. We are also going to focus on what we think is of importance to us for now." Among those who attended the meeting were Badi Twalib (Jomvu), Said Hiribae (Galole), Ali Mbogo (Kisauni), Kassim Tandaza (Matuga), Benjamin Tayari (Kinango) and Getrude Mbeyu (Kilifi). Others were Ali Sheriff (Lamu East), Stanley Muthama (Lamu West), Jones Mlolwa (Voi), Ali Wario (Bura), Ali Wario (Garsen).   Several Coast leaders promise to rally voters behind William Ruto in 2022 presidential race.