The broad public support for the recent demolition of buildings on riparian land or other unauthorised sites in Nairobi and other towns is a vote of confidence in the fight against impunity. The majority of the people would like to see things done properly and building rules and regulations strictly enforced to enhance the safety of the built environment. It is also no secret that corruption has been rife in the allocation of land, and the approval of building plans and designs. More often, money changes hands as a result of which land set aside for public utilities and amenities is grabbed for private development. And, because some officials are paid to look the other side, building sites are never inspected to ensure that elaborate rules and regulations are strictly enforced. As a result, buildings are put up on road reserves, not only inhibiting expansion plans, but also hampering traffic flow. RE-EVALUATED While the funds invested in such structures may go to waste, this is also an indictment of the very agencies that give the approvals and later turn around to order demolitions. In Nairobi's Eastlands, for example, the developer of Airgate Mall (formerly Taj Mall), which was knocked down recently, had approvals from the various agencies, including the city county government, despite blatantly sitting bang in a road reserve. Another glaring offender was the South End Mall on Lang'ata Road, whose construction was allowed despite being put up on a road reserve. As these huge investments have come down, the bigger scandal is that the officers who approved the projects have been allowed to go scot free. This is ridiculous. It is encouraging, therefore, to note that the Environment Committee of the National Assembly is now taking a keen interest in the matter following the threat by Nema to demolish Seefar Apartments at Nyayo Highrise in Nairobi, whose developer says the project was fully approved by the same agencies that now want to knock down the building. Can't such projects, for example, be re-evaluated and reinforced to mitigate any safety concerns?  