A new trend is emerging among the political class that would be funny if it wasn’t that it is being perpetrated by people a substantial section of the country looks up to. The behaviour, which has all the hallmarks of juveniles striving for attention, is, unfortunately, gaining attractiveness so fast that it could soon become fashionable. But it should not be allowed to take root. In a space of just about one week, there has been hue and cry by regional leaders following two public functions graced by the President Uhuru Kenyatta that seems to shift the focus away from the events themselves. In Kakamega County, where the President presided over Mashujaa Day celebrations, local political leaders went on a tirade about how they should have been recognised and allowed to speak. SERIOUSLY DEMEANED Leading the pack was Ford-Kenya deputy party leader and former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale, who tweeted: “Today’s was a national function in Kakamega. We know! But blocking all of us from speaking after state protocol was breached has left us and our people seriously demeaned. But we are there…” The other event was the opening of the inaugural Lake Region Economic Bloc Summit in Bomet County, where the local politicians took a swipe at the Governor, Dr Joyce Laboso, for not allowing them to wave or speak. They walked out on the presidential function and went ahead to hold a press conference and later addressed an ad hoc public rally. OBSESSION WITH RECOGNITION I can understand the desire for recognition; it is a natural instinct inherent in most human beings. All of us want to be identified and reaffirmed as more important than everyone. For politicians, however, that desire is a hundred-fold more. But I do not understand the obsession with recognition. There is a need for rational behaviour and mastery of our egos. Every politician ought to distinguish between local and state functions. This lack of distinction is the reason Dr Khalwale got instant furious response from his twitter followers. They went for his jugular, telling him to stop his tribal conglomeration thingy, with some even meanly pointing out that the function was not a bullfighting ceremony (he is a professed bullfighter). He was dressed down by his followers, including flamboyant city lawyer Donald Kipkorir, who accused Dr Khalwale of political charlatanry, and for lacking political ideology, moral compass and absence of a higher calling. ATTENDED STATE FUNCTIONS One would expect better of Dr Khalwale, a man who served as an elected national leader for more than a decade and had attended scores of state functions. He should know better. Dr Khalwale must have watched the Madaraka Day celebrations at Kinoru Stadium, Meru County, and knows that local leaders did not speak — yet they did not make it an issue. He, however, conveniently opted to play politics — and it backfired. It need to be elucidated that any event attended by the President in his official capacity as the Head of State ceases to be a local function and immediately turns into a state function. The presidential protocol team takes over the organisation of the event. STRUCTURED PROGRAMME Often, there is a set and structured programme which is almost replicated in all state functions. Besides the standard format of the programmes, various factors are considered. That is if there is to be any variation in the programme — such as the nature of the event and those in attendance, as well as intelligence reports that may have been gathered a few days preceding the event. If the President’s team feels that there is a group that is up to mischief, or believes that some leaders lack the wisdom and temperament to be modest in their utterances, or if they even feel that there is a chance of a faction planning to embarrass the President, they will forestall it. That may well mean striking off marked persons from the programme, denying them access to the venue, as happened some time back in Mombasa County, or hounding them out of the events. In the event of an imminent security threat, they can even cancel the function. HONOUR CITIZENS Besides that, the concept of devolving national celebrations such as the Madaraka Day one was not to give local politicians a platform to outdo one another; neither are other state functions officiated over by the President. The national fetes were devolved to honour the citizens. To give them a chance to experience the presidency at close range. They are meant to let the citizens feel the presence of their leader. Of course, there is a need to recognise local leaders present at these events, as a matter of decency and decorum, but that’s entirely at the behest of the organisers. It is not a right. For them to demand to speak is outrageous, even ridiculously insane. Mr Kwinga is a political scientist based in Nairobi. skwinga@gmail.com  