The rains are here once again and the news coming from around the country is as depressing as ever. The perennial disastrous flooding and destruction of property speaks volumes about a shocking lack of preparedness. It is not like the rains just suddenly dropped out of the skies, catching all unawareness. The Meteorological Department, which has in recent years been spot on with their forecasting, had warned well in advance that some areas would receive heavy downpours during this short rainy season. Moreover, the skies have been pregnant with rain clouds in the past few days and it was just a matter of time before the deluge started. SUSTAIN LIFE Ideally, rains should be a blessing as the people receive a commodity that sustains life. But it is unforgivable that in this country, rains always morph into a curse, in towns and rural areas alike. It’s a shame that Mombasa has been swamped by heavy floods that have left the roads largely impassable. The resort city has been choked with traffic jams, bringing it almost to a standstill. In Kwale, transport has been paralysed along the busy Likoni-Lunga Lunga highway after River Ramisi burst its banks. There have been similar reports of destruction in other parts of the country as the rains continue. FLASH FLOODS In Nakuru, traders are counting losses with flash floods being reported in the central business district and some residential estates. Being the seat of the county, this is where one would have expected more elaborate measures and preparedness to prevent rains from causing misery to residents. All we see, instead, are clogged drains and lack of capacity to trap and make good use of the water. There has always been talk about rain water harvesting and the building of dams to enhance disaster preparedness. Why is this not happening? But even the few dams that exist are not managed efficiently and regularly inspected and maintained. In the end, they become death traps in themselves. It is time to boost disaster preparedness.  