More than £500 million was stolen from customers of British banks in the first half of 2018, according to new research. Of this, £145 million was due to scams where people were conned into sending money to other accounts.Mostly, customers were duped into paying for products or services that did not exist, such as cars and holidays. Victims of such scams rarely get their money back because under current legislation they are liable for any losses if they authorise payment themselves. TRAFFICKINGThe proceeds are believed to be used for terrorism, people smuggling and drug trafficking.The industry group Finance UK gave the following advice: Never disclose security details such as your PIN or banking password; don’t assume an email, text or phone call is genuine; don’t be rushed, don’t panic and listen to your instincts — if something does not feel right, it probably isn’t.The other major fraud, accounting for £358 million, came from transactions made without a customer’s knowledge.* * * Angela Tinning was puzzled when her pet cat, Missy, started acting strangely. The cat insisted on lying on her chest and pawing a particular area.At the same time, Angela became aware of a slight pain in her chest and went to see her doctor. Pre-cancerous cells were found and removed by surgery.Two years later, Missy started behaving as before. Angela, a school finance officer from Newcastle upon Tyne, said, “My cat is not normally the loving type and she was going to my chest and touching the same area as before. SURGERY“I had heard about dogs having an instinct about when their owner was faring poorly, but I never heard of cats doing this. However, I knew something was not right and I thought, ‘I’m not leaving this.’” Returning to her doctor, a biopsy was taken and found to be malignant. Angela had breast cancer. She underwent a mastectomy and reconstructive surgery.The cancer was caught early but had it not been for Missy, it might have been months before it was detected. Angela, 45, said, “If I had waited, I would probably have had a large tumour. When Missy jumped on my chest, that was my indication.”Angela has nominated Missy for the Hero Cat title at the National Cat Awards.* * * Although treatment is free under the National Health Service, certain charges are levied, including £8.80 for a medication prescription.Exceptions are generous, including anyone under 16 and over 60, pregnant women and mothers with children up to one year, students and those receiving military pensions. However thousands of people claim falsely that they are entitled to free medication, a fraud which costs the NHS £256 million per year. In 2016-17, the number of £100 fines levied for false claims doubled to more than 900,000.Now a new digitised system is to be introduced which will allow pharmacies to verify instantly who is entitled to free prescriptions.An official said, “The message is clear: The NHS is no longer an easy target and if you try to steal from it, you will face the consequences.”* * * Last April 22, this column carried a reference to people from the Caribbean who came to live in this country soon after World War Two, the so-called Windrush generation, named after the ship which brought them here.Some of the children of these immigrants never applied for passports and were later wrongly identified as illegal. However, under the 1971 Immigration Act, all Commonwealth citizens already living in the UK were given indefinite leave to remain.It has been pointed out that this fact is not known to everyone who might be affected. All necessary details can be found in https://visaguide.world/Europe/uk-visa/indefinite-leave-to-remain/ * * * It was lunchtime and the teacher put a load of bananas in front of the class with a notice saying: “Take one banana each. God is watching.” The next table was piled high with cream cakes. Said cheeky Charlie to his friend: “Take as many cakes as you want, God is watching the bananas.”*** The hugely wealthy Baron von Rothschild was travelling through the countryside and decided to stop off at a little restaurant for a bowl of soup. He was then handed a bill for one hundred dollars. “Is chicken soup so rare in these parts?” he demanded. Said the waiter, “No, sir, but Rothschilds are.”*** Three tough bikers swaggered into a roadside restaurant where a truck driver was quietly sipping his soup. The first biker dunked his cigarette in the soup, the second threw the soup on the floor and the third knocked the driver off his seat. Saying nothing, the customer just got up and quietly left. “Not much of a man, is he,” sneered the last biker. “Not much of a truck driver, either,” said the waiter. “He just drove over three motorcycles.” Gerryo69@hotmail.com  