On October 7, 2015, Faith Kibere wrote in the Daily Nation asking whether a PhD was a curse or blessing to a young woman. She narrated the struggle by young women trying to straddle modernity and indigeneity. They want to play the role of the wife who cooks mukimo and omushenye and also act as empowered women. The Saturday Nation of September 29 carried, on its front page, pictures of 10 young women who were “butchered so young”, as the banner headline said. This trend is worrying. Why the lack of respect for girls’ lives? Why are men, who are supposed to be protectors of women and children, turning into their murderers? In the rush for economic empowerment, does society prepare girls properly and provide security for them? FEMINIST MODERNITY Kibere concludes that our indigenous logics and methods of nurturing girls may not have been all that negative. We need to rethink security for our girls as they move into independent, liberated lives and spaces. Undoubtedly, all the girls involved want to transit from values of indigeneity and engage in feminist modernity. The transition has also bothered men, and has been widely dealt with by Mugo Gatheru. In his book, Child of Two Worlds, Gatheru demonstrates his efforts to straddle modernity and indigeneity. At some point, while in London, he is worried about how to dispose of his baby’s placenta. In the context of indigeneity, he would have thrown it in the garden and, in modernity, an incinerator. COMPLEX DUALITY The women’s transition experience has not been interrogated and documented. They will mostly say they have a dual experience — in the world of work and that of home. They are officers in the office but mothers and wives at home. The duality is more complex than that and poses significant questions which need answers. The first is about empowered women and marriage. Kibere clearly demonstrates that, as the biological clock ticks, women become concerned about finding male partners. They are frustrated that no eligible man has proposed to them. The men marry down or are the ‘useless’ boys who are evolving in the society. Whom, then, will our girls marry? FORCE MARRIAGE Another question is, should every woman marry? Our girls need to learn that not every woman should marry. Even in indigenous society, there were women, albeit few, who did not marry for some reason. Some also leave abusive husbands or childless marriages. Sometimes women enjoyed the latitude to ‘marry’ others, who would bear them children. One cannot force a marriage and can choose to be career woman. But it’s not that easy. A widowed Wambui Otieno struggled with remaining single and having no identity in society. This is because society sees unmarried women as failures and dangerous husband snatchers. No one should go to great lengths to secure a husband, some of whom are dangerous. PRIMITIVE ACCUMULATION The second issue is women and primitive accumulation. Literature is awash with information about its exploitative nature. Is women having ‘sponsors’ (sugar daddies) a moral and proper gendered method of primitive accumulation? Should women commodify their sexuality so that they can make money? Luise White thinks so. In her book, The Comforts of Home: Prostitution in Colonial Nairobi, she demonstrates how the first entrepreneurial women in the city commodified their sexuality to become extremely rich in the comfort of their homes. How should we socialise girls to know the need for legitimate methods of accumulation? USELESS BOYS The third is toxic masculinity and ‘useless’ boys. Aggression and untamed sexuality are part of socialisation to be boys. We need to dispel the myths around male sexuality which adore and place men with untamed sexuality as conquerors. Let’s deconstruct the tropes that, after a man makes money, the next thing he should have is untamed sexuality. Our television screens idolise men with money and untamed sexuality. But why are stories of men who have lived in monogamous relationships and with disciplined sexuality told? The moneyed men go dangling gifts to girls who are often younger than them. Unfortunately, the society celebrates such men. Dr Kinyanjui is a senior research fellow at the Institute of Development Studies, University of Nairobi. marykin- yanjui@yahoo.com.  