Violet Shunza, 31, was initially misdiagnosed with several illnesses and was undergoing a surgery for a different medical issue when surgeons found a cancerous mass in her colon. The single mother of one is currently undergoing treatment and hopes to beat the cancer. She speaks to Nation.co.ke.  “I could feel a lump in my stomach for about four years before I was diagnosed. I even asked my sisters if they felt anything of the sort in their bodies, but they would tell me was that I could be ovulating. I completely ignored it. “In 2017, I started experiencing severe pains so I decided to seek professional help. I got numerous diagnoses: typhoid, urinary tract infection, and even pelvic abscess. “When I finally went to Kenyatta Hospital in September of the same year, I was sent for an ultrasound, and blood and urine tests. The doctor said that the results showed pelvic abscess, which had to be removed through surgery. It was scheduled. SURGERY “During surgery, the gynaecological team realised that the mass was actually in the colon and not in my pelvis. They called in the general surgery team to take over the operation. This team then took a biopsy, and also performed a colostomy, which is a surgical procedure that brings one end of the colon through the abdominal wall to create a stoma. A stoma is an opening in the skin where a pouch, or colostomy bag, is attached to collect body waste. “I was shocked when I woke up and found a pink mass on my stomach. I thought it was a drain, or something that had been left there after the surgery. People who undergo colostomies are normally counselled first, but I wasn’t, seeing as it was an emergency procedure. “I did not want to jump into conclusions so I was quick to ask the next nurse who had come to my aid. She explained what happened during the surgery and I almost cried. “I felt like my whole life crashed down. Thoughts crossed my mind that life would never be same again. “I was discharged two months later in November while awaiting the biopsy results. I was called in early December and informed that the mass was cancerous. “The oncologist then informed me that I had to go through chemotherapy to ensure that all the cancer cells are killed. I completed the last and twelfth one at the end of last month. “Chemotherapy is tough. My family and friends gave me both financial and emotional support through this time. I had an active pay bill number where well-wishers would contribute for my treatment. My family and friends visited me both in hospital and at home, accompanied me for my chemotherapy sessions, and even sent messages of encouragement and hope. They greatly motivated me throughout this time. I do not know how I would have done it without them. HOPE “At some point after my diagnosis, I had to quit my job because the treatment took up most of my time. The treatment also drained the little savings I had, to a point of I was forced to move into a cheaper neighbourhood. Right now, I am only involved in advocacy and awareness for Stoma World Kenya. “Initially, when I went back home, my daughter was scared of being near me because of the stoma. She did not understand what was happening. It was heartbreaking and I felt that the cancer was robbing me of so many things. Not only had cancer robbed me of my health and finances, it was also trying to rob me of the one thing I treasure most: motherhood. "But I understood my daughter, and, besides, many adults are also scared of seeing a stoma or an ostomate. So I decided to explain the situation to her. It took time but she eventually understood the situation we were in and got used to it. Now she is okay with it and even helps me with packing my supplies when travelling. “When I first had my colostomy, I thought I would never again engage in some activities such as swimming or even dating. But all that changed after I joined various support groups. I came to realise that there are many ostomates who are living life just like other people. I now do everything that I thought I couldn’t. “Since the diagnosis, I have come to value my relationships. I realised that life is short, and this also made me become less materialistic. “Growths, swellings and masses on the bodies should never be overlooked. One should seek treatment immediately. Screening is also very important because early diagnosis gives a cancer patient a better chance at treatment. “I am scheduled to undergo an MRI and CT scan in a few weeks. The doctors will also evaluate me to see whether I am eligible for a reversal of the colostomy. A reversal means having my colon stitched back. I am hopeful that I will be in remission for a long time." ***  SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS Various types of cancers can have different signs and symptoms. The Cancer Organisation identifies some signs and symptoms of colon cancer as: These symptoms often appear after the cancer has grown and spread, which is why it is better to be tested before getting the symptoms. Colorectal cancer found through screening is much easier to treat. *** The Cancer Warrior story series tells the stories of cancer survivors. To share your cancer story, email lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com   I try to make people understand that having cancer is not the end of everything