In this interactive series, we invite readers to send in questions to selected public figures. This week, National Assembly Majority Leader  Aden Duale responds to your questions 1. The two-thirds rule on elective posts seems to very expensive and unrealistic as we cannot force the electorates and we must resort to further nominations to meet the threshold. With the ballooning wage bill shouldn’t the two-thirds rule apply exclusively to nominative and appointive posts? David Maranga, Lang'ata The two-thirds gender principle is a key pillar of the Constitution. So far it is the only article in the Constitution that has not been implemented. That is an indictment on the part of the legislature. As leader of government business in the National Assembly, it is my duty and that of other members to actualise the full implementation of the Constitution. 2. As the Leader of the Majority in the National Assembly, the MPs and some other Kenyans believe you bulldozed through the House the Finance Bill (now an Act) with the President’s recommendations. Does this worry you since it touches on your leadership integrity? Does it worry your conscience that Kenyans believe you are part and parcel of the hardships they will undergo because of the fuel tax among others that you forcefully pushed through? David M. Kigo, Nairobi Parliament has legislative power to amend, legislate or repeal any law. In Article 115 of the Constitution, the President is given the power to refer law passed by Parliament in exercise of his veto power in order to protect citizens from a rogue Parliament. In the case of Finance Bill 2018, the President returned a memoranda on certain articles. For Parliament to disagree with the President, they must raise a threshold of 233 members. As head of government business, it is my duty to introduce the President’s memoranda in the chamber. In this case they were only 215 MPs present at the time. As a country we must balance between the payment of taxes and development agenda of our country. 3. The current call by a section of politicians for a referendum on the Constitution has elicited mixed reactions and it is on record that you are against it. Do you feel that the move has ulterior motives or you are singing the same song with Deputy President William Ruto? How will it help the common mwananchi? Jeff Chepkwony, Sigor, Chepalungu As the patron of the Pastoralists Parliamentary Group, we will not agree to a referendum where constituencies are reduced, counties merged, and positions created. We will only support a referendum that will increase the resources given to county governments to 45 per cent. For now we are waiting for the proponents of the referendum to share with us the referendum questions. 4. Anyone who knows the dynamics of Kenyan politics will appreciate the unique position you are in and also the immense challenges which your office faces as you try to balance many interests. In the previous Parliaments, consensus building was carried out on contentious issues before they were debated at the plenary. This was mainly done through the informal meetings you referred to as Kamukunjis. The acrimony witnessed recently during the debate on the fuel levy was unfortunate. What happened to the Speaker's Kamukunji sessions which helped MPs sober up before crucial debates? Komen Moris, Eldoret Kamukunjis are informal gatherings of MPs. Formal business of the House, including the President’s memoranda, are not discussed in such meetings. The Finance Bill 2018, for example, went through public participation of the Committee Stage and at the Plenary. And that was where consensus was built on a number of articles, but not the Presidential memoranda. 5. Apart from the lawmaking role, the National Assembly plays a crucial mandate of overseeing the Executive through its various committees. However, the performance of these committees during the 12th Parliament has been disappointing and an absurdity. As the Leader of Majority, what are some of the challenges facing these committees? How can they be surmounted for the benefit of the taxpayers?  Komen Moris, Eldoret One of the challenges committees have in the 12th Parliament is that most members are new. They are learning the ropes. The declaration of personal interests among committee members, political parties interference, lack of committee rooms, among others have made their work more difficult. But we are addressing this by building more infrastructure in terms of meeting rooms, but more importantly, we have amended the Standing Orders to make it a crime for members not to declare their personal interests on any matter of national debate. 6. What initiatives has the 12th Parliament come up with to make Kenya the preferred investment destination in Africa like the Rwandese have done? Maina Gachanjah, Ongata Rongai We have passed all laws that will make Kenya a favourable destination for investor. Some of these laws include the Companies Act, Business Registration Act, Farir Trade Practices Act, Anti-Money Laundering Act as well as the creation of the financial reporting centre. 7. Majority of Garissa youth do not have the essential documents required to transact business or be employed in Kenya, the national ID. Some time to the 2017 General Election a team of immigration officials were sent to Dadaab Constituency to collect fingerprints from the youths who had been denied ID because they were in the UNHCR database despite their parents being bona fide Kenyans. They were told the same would be corrected within a month so that they can acquire IDs. To date there is no response on that exercise and the youth are suffering. How soon will the youth of Garissa start getting IDs and why has the feedback took too long in coming? Suleiman Mohamed, Muguga Under the Jubilee administration, there are more youth and citizens in North Eastern who have acquired national IDs than during any other administration since independence. Secondly, about those on the UNHCR database, the government is in the process of establishing structures from the villages to the national registration bureau to vet and ascertain the bona fide youth by involving parents, local chiefs and elders. This process will kick off in the next three months and conclude by mid-2019. 8. What can be done to ensure that we have more women voted for as MCAs to reduce the high number of women nominated MCAs? Githuku Mungai, Nairobi To give women of Kenya more visibility in the political arena, they must first be supported by their political parties by being given an equal platform as the same their male counterparts. Secondly, citizens must also play their role by voting in more women to positions of leadership. 9. You have been very outspoken on Republic of Somalia matters, including openly accusing United Arabs Emirates of sending mercenaries and money to destabilise the region. Your name has also been mentioned alongside the illegal sugar and charcoal trade in Somalia. What interests do you have in Somalia? Could you also address the allegation that you and members of your family have been involved in illegal sugar and charcoal trade in Somalia? Ali S. Dahir, Garissa Town As a senior Somali politician in Kenya, I am under obligation to offer advice and support where necessary for attaining the stability and security of Somalia, which is important to Kenya. I come from a region that borders Somalia and has been a victim of the terror attacks by Al-Shabaab, including the 2015 attack at the Garissa University College which took place in my constituency. That makes me a stakeholder in the reconstruction and stabilisation of Somalia. My family and I have never been to Somalia. I am a proud Kenyan and leader in Parliament. I have all the right to be commentator, supporter and a critic of Somali political process by virtue of being a Somali leader. I am also part of the Kenya government which is involved in and has paid the human price for the stability of Somalia. Even in Kenya, my family and myself are not involved in any sugar business. But I am involved in camel rearing, though. 10. From the common person's point of view, our Parliament seems to have lost an element of discipline and what happens during crucial committee investigations and debates on important bills stand is an example of the said indiscipline. What is your take on this and what should be done to bring back sanity and discipline to the August House? Francis Njuguna, Kibichoi Parliament is an extension of the Kenyan society and it has its own shortcomings. But the Parliamentary Committee on Powers and Privileges chaired by Speaker Justin Muturi, has the mandate to instil discipline on members according to the Standing Orders and the Constitution. 11. Recently the Garissa County Governor Ali Korane accused you of trying to undermine his leadership. Kindly comment on this. Rashid Ali Kunow, Wajir town Governor Korane is a Jubilee governor. I supported him in 2017 General Election. We have a very good working relationship. I urge the people of Garissa, including me, to support him deliver on his promises to the electorate. 12. It seems that there are obvious differences between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. You are the DP’s key ally in the National Assembly. Kindly explain to Kenyans the cause of this rift. Daniel Kiptoo, Moiben As a key Jubilee leader, I can assure you that our house, which is headed by President Kenyatta, is intact. The President, as our leader makes decisions on behalf of us all and we abide by all decisions. 13. What next for Mr Duale after he finishes his third stint in Parliament in 2022? Richard Murigi, Kenol Muranga First, I want to thank the people of Garissa Township constituency for electing me for three consecutive times on three different major parties — ODM in 2007, URP in 2013 and Jubilee in 2017. When the time comes, I will go back to the people and seek direction on which seat to vie, either in the executive or the legislature. 14. At the height of the Al-Shabaab attacks in 2015, you promised to make public a list of Kenyan individuals and organisations you claimed were aiding the militants. Why haven’t you done so three years later? Why should the public believe your word again? Wycliffe Onditi, Chavakali I have never promised anyone any list. I spoke on behalf of the leadership of North Eastern and committed ourselves on behalf of our people to work with the security agencies in the war against terror. Since then, due to that collaboration, the attacks in the country, especially in the northern part, have reduced drastically. Therefore, I owe no list to anyone, media included.  