On the night of September 13, 2018, the home of Richard Lang'at, a former National Social Security Fund managing trustee, was raided by unknown gunmen at his home in Chepnyalilo village in Olenguruone, Kuresoi South, in a botched robbery. In what appeared to be a well-planned raid, the robbers, who were allegedly privy to information that there was money in the house, gained access into the compound by jumping over the fence. The plan was, however, bungled when the robbers discovered that Mr Langa't's family was at home contrary to their expectations. FAILED ROBBERY The new development forced them to back off the plan although it was too late as the security guard had already raised the alarm. As they were escaping, one of them accidentally dropped a pistol magazine with 15 rounds of ammunition. They escaped with the guard’s mobile phone. Police detectives traced the magazine to a gun belonging to a police officer attached to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations in Molo who was later arrested. Investigations further led to the arrest of three more police officers alongside seven other civilians linked to the failed robbery. FATALLY SHOT The suspects, who appeared before a Nakuru court, were charged with robbery with violence. The incident elicited fear among the residents, leading to public outcry over the rise in criminal activities linked to police officers. Previously police have used firearms in contravention of the law. On February 18, an Anti-Stock Theft Unit police officer fatally shot his wife and daughter at Suswa Camp in Subukia, Nakuru County, following a domestic row. The officer, identified as Mr Cosmas Biwott, is said to have picked a quarrel with his wife before he turned the firearm on her and their child. TRAGIC EPISODE Subukia OCPD Alex Ng’ang’a said the officer used a colleague’s firearm to shoot the woman and the five-year-old girl before fleeing. Neighbours who were shocked by the incident said the officer, who loved his drink, always quarrelled with his wife. He was arrested in Nandi Hills, Nandi County, a day later and taken to Nakuru to face murder charges before the High Court. Members of the public were also treated to another tragic episode by police in September 2017, when a police officer fatally shot his girlfriend at their residence in Nakuru town before turning the gun on himself. Neighbours said the two, who cohabited at a rented apartment, had fought over allegations of an “affair”. HUMAN RIGHTS Mr Joshua Omukata, the then Nakuru OCPD said the policeman had sneaked a gun from his work station to his residence. In another shocking incident on June 23, 2016, four police officers — Fredrick ole Leliman, Stephen Cheburet Morogo, Sylvia Wanjiku Wanjohi and Leonard Maina Mwangi — and a Mr Kamau were arrested and charged in connection with the murder of a city lawyer, Mr Willy Kimani. Mr Kimani, a human rights advocate, was abducted and killed alongside his client Josephat Mwenda and a taxi driver Joseph Muiruri. Their bodies were recovered from a river near Donyo Sabuk a week after they were reported missing. POLICE REFORMS It is because of this misuse of firearms by police officers that the debate on the security of the public continues to gather momentum even after President Uhuru Kenyatta announced major reforms in the police service. The decision by President Kenyatta to abolish the policy requiring junior police and prison officers to live in free institutional houses is still under public scrutiny with residents giving diverse opinions on whether it will help reduce crime. President Kenyatta, while defending the decision, said it will see the police take their services closer to the citizens. POOR PAY However, those against the move argued that interactions between the police and citizens might lead to more killings. A police source who spoke on condition of anonymity felt that many police officers resort to crime due to poor pay. According to the officer, interactions between police and citizens is likely to lead to competition that may force the police into crime. Mr David Kuria, the chairman of the Nakuru Human Rights Network, said that most officers want to earn quick money by breaking the law which they are mandated to enforce.  