Universities Sevens champions Blak Blad from Kenyatta University eye a double when they take on hosts University of Nairobi’s Mean Machine in the inaugural Varsity Cup final on Saturday. Machine needed a thrilling penalty shootout to silence hosts Egerton University 3-1 after the two teams battled to a 11-11 stalemate in regulation time at the Egerton University grounds. Blak Blad led 15-7 at the break, before blowing away Catholic University of East Africa Monks 44-7 in the other semi-final to set up the classy varsity derby. Egerton and Monks will now battle in the play-off staring 12pm before the final at 2pm. Blak Blad coach Michael “Tank” Otieno predicted a tough battle, saying Machine will bring out its finest arsenal in the varsity derby. “Our meetings have always been close, Machine always raise their game to another level when facing us and I am sure they would like to take home something after we won Varsities Sevens title,” said Otieno. Machine captain Shadon Munoko said they are motivated and going for revenge after Blak Blad beat them in Mombasa to clinch Universities Sevens title. “We are well prepared noting that we have two finals this weekend- Varsity Cup and Impala Floodlit,” said Munoko, noting that they are hungry for more success having won the KRU Championships to troop back to Kenya Cup next season. Machine face-off with United States International University (USIU) in the Varsities final of the Impala Floodlit on Saturday. Fullback Brian Ndege put Egerton ahead with a penalty before fly-half Edwin Kimutai went for the touchdown to stretch their lead to 8-0. Then Machines would start to roll with centre Bob Otieno giving them a try before fullback Trevor Arina slotted over a penalty to level 8-8 at the drinks. Ndege would put Egerton ahead with a penalty, before Ndege cancelled it with a similar to take the battle to the shootout. Tries from second-row Sheldon Khai and skipper Brian Wahinya put Blak Blad ahead 15-0 but not before fly-half Lionel Ajei made one conversion and a penalty. Fly-half Humphrey Wanjala converted centre Elias Odhiambo’s try to bring back the Monks intro the game 15-7 at the break. Things turned awry for the Monks when they socked in four tries, three conversions and a penalty in the second half. Scrum-half Andrew Lusa and wingers Ryan Ario and Akadias Kwesa scored a try each. Substitute Robinson Chavai finished it off with their last yr. Ajei made the kicks.  