Lamu County has risen from a decade-long marginalisation by successive governments to a mega industrial hub. This follows the establishment of mega national projects that are bound to change the county’s economy for the better. The county hosts the Sh2.5 trillion Lamu Port South Sudan Ethiopia Transport (Lapsset) corridor project which is being established at Kililana in Lamu West. The county is also to host the Sh200 billion coal-fired power plant at Kwasasi village in Hindi Division. The Sh21 billion Baharini Wind Power Plant in Mpeketoni Division and the exploration for oil and gas in Pate Island are all in the county. SQUATTER PROBLEM The prospects are good but it is unfortunate that they are in turn haunting the county. Currently, Lamu is among the regions in Kenya which are witnessing increased land related conflicts, resulting in the escalation of the squatter problem. In recent days, Lamu has witnessed an increase in the number of encroachers occupying areas bordering mega projects such as the Lapsset corridor. Mr Abubakar Mohamed, who is the chairman of the Save Lamu Civil Society Organisation, told the Nation that there is an urgent need for the county government to initiate plans to help regulate land matters to avoid emergence of unplanned settlements. STRATEGIC PLAN Mr Mohamed called for a special county strategic plan that will regulate the implementation and execution of various development projects in the county. “It is high time the county came up with a plan of identifying the indigenous residents of Lamu and ensure they are given land and title deeds. So far, the intended mega projects in the county have attracted immense speculation. This has subsequently led to an increase in illegal land practices,” said Mr Mohamed. But locals in Lamu are now putting the blame on the National Land Commission (NLC) which, they say, has failed to dedicate itself to ending land squabbles in the county. LOST CONFIDENCE Mr Ishaq Khatib, an activist, told the Nation that they have lost confidence in the NLC. “We are suffering at the expense of the mega projects. The NLC, which is supposed to issue titles to us, is concentrating more on issuing the documents to investors rather than focusing on the people of Lamu,” said Mr Khatib.   Govt has been keen to complete Lapsset headquarters and first berths before opening whole project to private investors.