With the usual protagonists having qualified for the inaugural Varsity League semi-finals with pool matches to spare, the final round of matches at Kenyatta University grounds on Saturday will decide the pairings. Hosts Kenyatta University’s Blak Blad take on Egerton University to decide winners of Pool “A” in the last match of the festival at 4pm while Catholic University of Eastern Africa’s Monks play University of Nairobi’s Mean Machine in a top of the bill Pool “B” duel. Blak Blad, who are the Kenya Universities Sevens champions and Egerton have won two matches each though Blak Blad top Pool “A” on better aggregate while Monks and Machine have also won two matches each but the Monks enjoys better aggregate. Blak Blad launched their campaign strongly beating Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT) 24-13 in the first round of matches played at the University of Nairobi. Blak Blad would then silence Technical University of Mombasa (TUM) 29-0 in the second round at Catholic University of Eastern Africa grounds. Egerton battled to squeeze a slim 12-11 and 8-5 victories over TUM and JKUAT in the first and second round respectively, and now must produce something spectacular to stop Michael “Tank” Otieno’s Blak Blad. Otieno, who noted that his side has been improving with every match, has only made one change ahead of the battle against Egerton, bringing in Akedias Kwesa, who has been training with Kenya Sevens team. Otieno said they have worked on the errors committed against JKUAT and TUM hence are ready for Egerton. “Our ball handling was not good besides, we had a number of knock-ons,” said Tank. “Some of our passes were off target and lost possession at the break down. We have polished on these.” The Monks crushed Technical University of Kenya (TUK) 44-14 for a bonus point victory before stopping University of Eldoret (UoE) 23-6 while Machine spanked UoE 27-18 before crushing TUK 31-0. These matches will be preceded by the dead rubber clashes pitting UoE against TUK at 10.00am and JKUAT against TUM at 12.00pm. Saturday Varsity League third and final round matches at Kenyatta University Pool B; University of Eldoret v Technical University of Kenya (10.00am) Pool A: JKUAT v Technical University of Mombasa (12.00pm) Pool B: University of Nairobi v Catholic University of Eastern Africa (2.00pm) Pool A: Kenyatta University v Egerton University (4.00pm)  