On the morning of September 12, this year, 64-year-old Kalama Jimbi, was heading to Kaya Rabai Shrine for an elders weekly meeting. He was in the company of his eldest son, Saha Kalama. A kilometre away from his home, the two were attacked. It was the son who was attacked first and left for dead as the attacker hurriedly went for the old man. Alone in the forest, the old man had his throat slit in a killing that shocked locals. DAYLIGHT KILLING The killing happened in broad day light but no one came to his rescue save for his son who after regaining consciousness rushed to a nearby village to report the attack. The deceased had just attended the Chenda Chenda festivals at Karisa Maitha grounds in Kilifi town. That attack was the latest but Rabai is quickly becoming a death trap for the elders. FAMILY MURDERED On July 10, a family of three was brutally murdered inside their house at Bwagamoyo village in Mwawesa. Villagers stumbled upon lifeless bodies of a couple and their son in a pool of blood. On July 13, 80-year-old Kisubi Dzaya was attacked in his house at around 10am. The attackers hacked him to death in broad daylight. But a son of the deceased who was nearby rushed to rescue him but it was late. He came face to face with one of the attackers. He apprehended one of them who later led them to the other attacker who had escaped after killing the old man. ELDERS IN FEAR A spot check by the Nation in Rabai/Kisurutini and Mwawesa revealed distraught elders who are now living in fear of being attacked. The late Dzaya left behind two widows and the family is seeking justice. Already two suspects are expected in a Mombasa court today to answer charges of murder. Mr Bakari Chisu Dzaya, 46 who is a boda boda cyclist said on the fateful day, he had returned home when he heard his father crying for help. “I rushed and tried to open the door but the attackers had locked it from inside. Then there was a loud bang, then everything went quiet. The attacker came out armed with a metal. I tried to fight him but I was overpowered,” said Mr Bakari. He raised an alarm and the locals cornered the suspect. “He was arrested and upon interrogation, he revealed his accomplice who was later arrested,” said Mr Bakari. He said his father’s death was caused by a dispute with his uncle. TITLE DEEDS “My father is a custodian of title deeds for several parcels of land in Rabai/Kisuruni,” he said adding “ My uncle wanted to be given one of the titles so that he could sell a piece of land but my father refused.” Police are still looking for his uncle. One of the suspected attackers said they had been sent to kill the old man by the suspect on the run. “He can run but he cannot hide.,” he said. At Kanyumbuni village, the family of the slain elder Jimbi stares at his fresh grave. PAINFUL DEATH “He died a painful death. They slit his throat and he died in a pool of blood. He was a bubbling elder we all respected,” said Florence Chamwango, a daughter-in-law of the deceased. His husband who was together with the deceased has left the village fearing for his life. Kilifi county commissioner Magu Mutindika told the nation that several suspects in the murder of the Kaya elder have been arrested. Mr Mutindika cautioned those taking part in the killings that the long arm of the law will one day catch up with them. A report by Pwani Youth Peace Trust Association has claimed that about 16 elders have been killed since the beginning of this year in Kilifi County. Chairman Nguma Charo called for more protection to the Kaya elders facing death threats.  