Kenyans across the divide agree that official criminality, abuse of office and endemic corruption is rife and should be tamed before it reaches terminal level. They also agree on the need for a stronger law enforcement entity that enjoys adequate structural and operational independence. It is a constitutional requirement for the National Police Service (NPS), in which the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) falls, to have all that. CAPACITIES The DCI is core crime investigatory agency. However, for many years, its performance and professionalism has been dismal, always accused of shoddy investigations. Eradicating crime and corruption depends on the institutional capacities of its machinery. Failure by the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) to prove cases beyond reasonable doubt is seen as underperformance by the DCI and undermining the rule of law. ACCOUNTABILITY Top investigation agencies such as the famous Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) in the United States and South Africa’s former agency Scorpions, which had a 94 per cent conviction rate, succeed for reasons such as independence and autonomy, stringent merit personnel recruitment, strict internal accountability and leadership with integrity and credibility. Also, they have prosecutors who do due diligence on investigations and evidence collection before the case file is sent to the prosecuting authority. EMPOWERED The DCI must undergo rigorous transformation to live up to Kenyans’ expectations. It must be legally empowered to pursue powerful individuals without fear, favour or prejudice. Structural, operational, institutional and financial independence is the backbone of appropriate performance by an institution. Not only does it shield it from meddling, but also enables it to perform well. PROTECT DEVICES Structural safeguards in the Constitution and other legislation protect independent bodies from political pressures and manipulation. It will protect detectives from impermissible or unlawful pressure. Even with its specialties, the DCI needs expertise in terms of prosecution preparedness. Internal prosecutors would analyse files and advise on the need for further investigations. The 2010 Constitution created an avenue for separating general law and order maintenance from crime detection, prevention and investigations. The DCI should be removed from the NPS. REINFORCEMENT Due to fundamental importance of its mandate, the DCI needs institutional independence. Interference by political and civil bureaucracies has been evident, leading to loss of faith by Kenyans. With devolution, it is sane that the DCI devolves certain aspects of its functions to the counties to tackle local context crimes and only seek reinforcement on a need basis. Without adequate funding, the DCI cannot perform appropriately. Having to depend on the NPS has negatively affected its operations. Lastly, the DCI has really tried to improve and even cope with the dynamics in technology in terms of communications and examination of evidence. However, there is still a need to improve the existing technology. Mr Wainaina is the executive director, International Center for Policy and Conflict (ICPC). @NdunguWainaina.  