Lake Turkana Wind Power has lowered it target to produce at full potential of 310MW even as it prepares to connect its supply lines to the national grid. The firm, which in September 2017, said it was confident of producing at 100 per cent of its capacity now says it will deliver at no more than 67 per cent “because 100 per cent production is impossible.” “LTWP is not contracted under the PPA to always provide 310MW –that is simply impossible given that you are dependent on wind. We aim to average 65-67 per cent over the operating year and that is outstanding by any accord, “the firm says in an update released on Monday. “… wind speed is not constant and so after numerous tests this was deemed to be the average power generation. Current tests so far have shown up to 75 percent in power generation which is great news.” Kenyans will also have to contend with a 14 per cent inflation adjustment on the Sh8.6 per kWh as per the 20-year long Power Purchase Agreement struck between the wind farm and the government. The firm remained upbeat that Kenyans will from next month begin to enjoy the promised benefit of cheaper power from the project which had been delayed by the completion of power lines. According to LTWP Director Rizwan Fazal , all the 365 turbines will be turned on by end of October to supply power to the grid in a move expected to lower the cost of power by between seven and 10 per cent. “As at October 17, we have 225 wind turbines hot commissioned and we generated 147MW with 187 turbines running. By end of October, all the 365 wind turbines should be supplying power to the grid,” Mr Fazal said. President Uhuru Kenyatta who recently promised cheaper power is expected to commission the project whose line construction faced multiple headwinds including insecurity, and legal challenges that saw tax payers pay a Sh5.7 billion fine to LTWP to compensate for the delay in evacuating power from its Marsabit station to Suswa. The T-line spanning 436 kilometers was completed last month and paving the way for the long-awaited evacuation.   Homes and businesses risk paying additional Sh1 billion in monthly electricity bills should Kenya fails to connect Lake Turkana Wind Power to the national power grid by June.