Karambu Muthaura, 38, lives a life punctuated by unpredictable spasms and chronic fatigue due to a condition called fibromyalgia. She shares her experience with Soni Kanake.  "My name is Karambu Muthaura, a project manager and mum of two – Cindy, 13, and Mo, four and a half. “Life was one big party until around 2006 when I started getting migraines and unexplained fatigue. I had always enjoyed great health, then one day I started getting sickly. Things have not been the same since. “I was treated but the problem persisted. Around 2008, I started experiencing severe pain in my lower back, which radiated to my left leg and I was back to hospital. The diagnosis was a prolapsed disk sitting on the sciatic nerve (a major nerve extending from the lower end of the spinal cord down the back of the thigh, which divides above the knee joint). “I was treated conservatively with the concentration being put on my lower back. The pain was becoming unbearable and I was permanently on painkillers. The pain was also interfering with my daily routine; I was not able to do much around the house. “The doctors recommended physiotherapy and exercises to try and alleviate the pain but it was temporary. However, when I skipped my exercises I noticed that my body weakened and I'd get bouts of fatigue which weren't relieved by resting. I had to learn to listen to my body to help adopt a comfortable gym regimen. “The condition was diagnosed as fibromyalgia, which causes the nerves to send wrong and exaggerated pain signals so in defense, the muscles contract leading to lots of spasms. As a result, I suffer from generalised body pain though it also comes with specific pain points for instance the trapezius (either of a pair of large triangular muscles extending over the back of the neck and shoulders and moving the head and shoulder blade). SPASMS “The body can suddenly get gripped by spasms so painful that I freeze and I am unable to do anything. I'm constantly on pain management, magnesium and Vitamin D3 supplements. "I'm in pain every single day and most of the days I have to push myself to get with the programme. Admittedly, some days are so bad I can't get up. I'm learning how to manage it, though no one can ever get used to pain – but I hardly miss work because of it. “Sometimes I might wake up feeling upbeat but after taking a shower my energy levels dip and I experience a bout of fatigue, which I will need time to recover from. I have also avoided driving as my body is unpredictable and I would never know when I'm gripped by excruciating pain. “The pain is at times hard to describe as I experience it in my entire body though my left side is worse. I discovered magnesium oil which I spray on my body after showering, and work-outs that helps repair the muscles faster. "Recently, while on a work-related trip to the Coast, I decided to join some friends for dinner. Everything was going on smoothly until I started spasming on my left side. The pains were so intense I started tearing. I felt embarrassed as they did not know I was sick and I could not continue with my food. “Speaking of food, I have to be careful what I eat as some foods are notorious for causing IBS (irritable bowel syndrome) or trigger pain and fatigue. I've cut down on my sugars and dairy products as well as red meats and wheat. I also bloat so easily and one would think I'm pregnant! To ease this, I use probiotic supplements. EXTREME PAIN "This extreme pain and spasms make me feel exposed. It also affects my relationships as I cannot be as sociable and available as I would wish. I might plan a lunch or coffee date with my girlfriends only to take a rain-check the last minute because I suddenly fell sick. Or even plan on attending a wedding for weeks but on the material day I'm a no-show. There I am looking all nice, together and lovely and then an embarrassing moment interferes and I'm forced to leave and rest. “This really wreaks havoc on my self-esteem and I'm not sure that if I take up something, I'll push through to the end. I was teaching part-time but had to keep that on hold indefinitely. I try to minimise my weekend activities to ensure I'm well rested for the week ahead. "I have tried various ways of pain management and I recently had a Botox injection on the trapezius muscle to stop it from contracting thus reducing the spasms on my shoulder and left arm. I have also undergone two back surgeries. “In 2016 I had gone to Kendu Bay for a burial and contracted malaria but had no idea. Due to being in constant pain and fatigue, it was not easy to know I had another problem. I remember going to the doctor because the pain was not responding to painkillers and that was when I was diagnosed with malaria as function tests revealed an enlarged liver due to malarial parasites. This took a beating on my system and my body weakened. “I've been trying to bounce back since. I have embraced a routine where I walk a lot, cycle in the gym and do my stretches. I live one day at a time. My advice is: learn to live your life with what has been dished to you.”   I was only 17 when they called me to tell me mum was gone.