Normalcy is returning to the Coast after two days of heavy rains and flash floods which sparked fears of diseases, displacement and loss of property. Motorists, transporters and farmers are, however, counting huge losses as the rains rendered roads impassable. GOOD SEASON In Kwale County, Lungalunga Deputy County Commissioner Mr Josphat Biwott said the rains stopped after two days and that water levels had dropped. "There is easy flow of traffic along the highway," he said, adding they had started assessing the damage. Kwale County's National Drought Management Authority coordinator, Mr Ramon Sherah, said the rains were also beneficial as water reservoirs are full. "We have had a good season and since the short rains season is about to begin, we urge farmers to prepare," he said, adding the county has water and pasture that will last months ROADS IMPASSABLE The rains hampered transport and destroyed properties in several parts of the Coast. On the busy Mombasa-Nairobi highway on Friday, the traffic jam stretched from the Changamwe roundabout to Makupa Causeway. Passengers going to Moi International Airport and the Standard Gauge Railway Miritini terminus were forced to use boda-bodas. Kibarani area, which is under construction, was impassable for almost four hours, forcing the deployment of more than six traffic police officers to clear the traffic. In Kwale, transport was equally paralysed along Likoni-Lungalunga highway after River Ramisi burst its banks. County Commissioner Karuku Ngumo added that a two-year old child drowned in a pool of water at their home in Vigurungani village, Kinango Sub-county. There was a massive traffic jam on Likoni-Lunga Lunga highway after River Ramisi burst its banks. Hundreds of commuters were stranded on either side of the river for the better part of Friday. In Matuga Sub-county, damage was minimal, with properties affected including some toilets at Matuga Girls' High School. In Kinango Sub-county, River Mwache flooded, leaving Mazeras-Kinango road cut off at Mwache. Residents were forced to use Kinango-Samburu and Kinango-Kwale roads to access Mombasa. BUSINESS DOWN In Taita Taveta County, farmers said they were unable to transport their crops and animal produce to markets within and outside the county, as Kungu-Ngerenyi road was in bad shape. Some of the dairy farmers in Ngerenyi, who sell their milk to a processing company in the county, said they did not transport hundred of litres. Mr John Mombo said he had 20 litres which were not collected as the transporter could not reach his farm. “I had to hawk the milk,” he said, adding people who wanted to seek medical care at Wesu Sub-county hospital in Wundanyi were also stranded. “We are forced to carry patients on our backs because the road are not motorable." Speaking to the Nation, Wusi/Kishamba Ward Representative Justin Juma said the contractor of the road, which was graded recently, did a poor job. “The earth road has become an inconvenience, especially to farmers who ferry their produce to Wundanyi market and beyond. For three days now, they have not sold anything. It’s a big loss for my people,” Mr Juma said. He said they will contact relevant authorities on help for the farmers, who have no other sources of income.   Floodwaters filled major streets and avenues in the city.