Jacqueline Osanjo is a producer and communications professional with noteworthy experience in television production and digital media. She runs operations at Outbox Ventures Limited, a production media house which produces original and dynamic online content such as Sauti ya Mama, Zazi and We Need To Talk. 1. What made you interested in becoming a producer? I was fascinated by film and the work that goes into creating the final product. I started off in the sound department and later moved to video. Three years ago, my business partner, John, and I decided to start our own media house, Outbox Ventures Limited. I produce the content – documentaries, commercials and television shows.  2. What is it like for women to get into film now compared to, say, 10 years ago? I believe it is much easier. I think this is one of the few sectors where patriarchy plays a very minimal role if any. Women are challenging the status quo and excelling in the sector.  3. What inspired your move to online content? What do you think is the future for local TV content in the online space? Creating content for online is a space that can't fit into a box. Creativity is not limited. In the online space, we get to curate content for a specific target audience. Content that matters to them. Content that they can watch at their own convenience while we get direct feedback. We have come a long way from the first video on YouTube nearly 13 years ago. Time, skill and thought has been put into the current content and we have barely scratched the surface, and more and more producers are creating content specifically for online consumption.  4. Your shows feature topics that Kenyans often talk about, particularly in terms of education and childcare. What prompted your focus on this particular area? There is very minimal Kenyan content targeting both parents and children that is entertaining and more importantly, educative. I am passionate about creating content that I as a parent can watch with my child and learn – that was why we created Zazi, featuring various fun educative experiments. Sauti Ya Mama reassures parents that they are not in this parenting journey alone. There is no manual for it. We are all winging it - I believe the shows resonate with many families.  5. What shows are you looking to produce next and what other shows have you worked on that are close to your heart? We are hoping to make our channel a TV station, airing diverse daily content for the family unit. Sauti Ya Mama, which airs every Wednesday, gives me a sense of purpose, I am not only doing what I love, I am also helping fellow parents become better caregivers. Parents are their children’s first teacher, and Zazi, which airs every Friday, showcases fun learning experiments a parent and child can try together at home. You bond as you learn! We also produce We Need To Talk, a civic show that tackles societal issues. For instance, where do we ignite change and how do we change as a country? We are also hoping to duplicate our formula for other brands in terms of creating original video content for them. Our ideas are out of the box. ***   Makena Onjerika won the 2018 Caine Prize for African Writing for her story "Fanta Blackcurrant".