Heavenly blessings from Goddess Ambe are being showered on the faithful as they swing into religious ecstasy, dancing from dusk to dawn to honour and glorify the revered deity. In the midst of this Navratri festivity comes a musical blessing for our melody lovers. Leading Kenyan show promoter Ranee Productions has a special festive boon—Bollywood’s queen of melody and romantic songs Shreya Ghoshal has been signed up to lift up our hearts at Diamond Plaza 2 on Saturday evening, October 27, 2018. This is her second visit. She was here four years ago. I understand her repertoire includes melodies and songs ready to rock and celebrate the festive season. The melody queen was introduced to the world of Bollywood music when she was declared a winner in the Sa Re Gama musical contest and sang for Sanjay Leela Bansali’s blockbuster Devdas. The movie had five songs in her voice as she did the playback act for the lead woman, Aishwarya Rai Bachan. The melodies were a raving success and this paved the way for her to be recognised as a singer of substance. Awarded the National Film Award as the Best Female Voice, Shreya never looked back as she kept on being showered with praise and many national and international music awards. Besides being a celebrity playback singer, Ghoshal the melody queen loves performing on stage at live concerts. She regularly visits Europe, United States, Australia, New Zealand, Mauritius, Middle East and Africa. She has the voice, the personality and charm to make a perfect evening for her audience. For the past two decades, Ranee has ruled the world of show and event promotion in East and Central Africa. It has continued to provide unique entertainment to our show goers. The promotion house has always excelled in choice and creative expression of its events, and continues to be respected for lavish stage setups and artistic presentations. Its recent Rahat Fatheali Khan exposition never ceased to tantalise. Kenyan show-goers have already shown overwhelming response by rushing to make advance bookings at Ranee’s Production Studios and at Pals Bookshop at Diamond Plaza. You are strongly advised to follow suit for this unique melody experience and at the same time join Ranee’s Production in celebrating 20 years of its service to our entertainment industry.   It has won several African film festival awards.