Nakumatt carry a one-goal lead into their SportPesa Premier League promotion play-off when they tackle Ushuru FC in the return fixture at Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani on Sunday. Nakumatt won the first leg clash 1-0 at Camp Toyoyo ground on October 19 and can remain in the top tier league at the expense of National Super League side Ushuru by avoiding defeat. But the taxmen have vowed to turn tables on the Melis Medo-coached side. “We are ready to face Nakumatt on Sunday. We will try to create chances and take them. It will be a competitive encounter but expect my boys to give their best,” said Ushuru long time coach Ken Kenyatta. Nakumatt finished 16th in the SPL while Ushuru finished third in the NSL to settle for the play-off slot duel.Western Stima and Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) earned automatic promotion from the NSL while Wazito FC and Thika United were relegated from the SPL. Medo, who has everything to get the results he needs, is likely to field a defensive side to protect their slim lead. Nakumatt boasts a galaxy of stars including former Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards forward Timonah Wanyonyi, and ex-Ingwe defender Eugene Ambulwa. Earlier at the same venue, former popular Premier League side Shabana will face Mwatate United in a play-off for promotion to the National Super League. Already promoted to the second tier league are Fortune Sacco and Eldoret Youth. Shabana and Mwatate finished second in this year’s Division One, the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) third tier in their respective zones. Coached by Andrew Kanuli, the Kisii-based side had been touted as pre-season candidates for promotion, spending much of the competition at the top level of the league but lost out to rivals, Eldoret Youth who emerged Zone B champions unbeaten. Shabana, who were relegated from the NSL in 2014, have been playing in Division One and fell in their quest to win the league. “Everybody is ready to face Mwatate. We wanted an automatic qualification, but missed it. We now have another chance in the play-off. We want to win this and will give our best shot,” said Kanuli.  