Some readers wrote to comment on diverse topics. We publish selected letters. Little girl who met Melania It would have completed the picture well if the girl who welcomed US First Lady Melania Trump with a bunch of flowers was named. Surely, it would have been easy to get her name. — Githuku Mungai Public Editor: All too true. * * * Two governors, different coverage Two high-profile matters involving two governors, Ali Korane of Garissa and Okoth Obado of Migori. The Obado case has been well publicised (or over-publicised), with daily headlines running for days on end. But alas! The Korane case has been blacked out or accorded muted coverage. Why? — Mboga Nyambati * * * Moi Girls rape saga a journalistic failure? How far do they (journalists) go out of their way in sourcing for stories and analysing the elements of truth, allegations, tentative assurances and contradictory statements? When interviewing a purported victim, for example, I would expect a reporter to go forward and consult with other interested parties, including the alleged perpetrator. This would quell all doubts surrounding such an issue and present an unbiased and in-depth footage. The Moi Girls rape saga of three months ago resurfaced. This time around with the security officers giving their side of the story. And it negated what had been professed by the ‘rape victims’. After watching it on NTV, I don’t know what to believe anymore. I don’t understand why the media sensationalised the issue without properly assessing the different parties involved to confirm the allegations. — Allan Kipchirchir Koech Public Editor: Whether there was rape or not remains an unsettled question. According to a Daily Nation report of October 3, a National Assembly committee investigating the alleged rape has confirmed that a girl was sexually assaulted in a dormitory. However, the Committee on Education was non-committal on whether it was rape as the matter is still under active investigation. * * * Story of men killed by women missing Obwocha Mariga thinks the September 29 Saturday Nation story of young and upwardly mobile women victims of cold-blooded murders was unbalanced; the story of men killed by women was missing. “Apart from high-profile cases on what one can call ‘love murder cases’, there are thousands others reported by vernacular radio stations, which should have assisted the readers to realise the magnitude of the problem,” wrote Mr Mariga. “In Bomet County alone, in September, FM stations reported nine cases of men and women killed in love affair-related deaths.” * * * ‘Being Bahati’ valueless content The content aired on some TV channels is not only pathetic but it also demonstrates how creativity by producers has gone down. Some programmes are better aired past midnight, when people are dead asleep, rather than waste viewers’ time between 9pm and 11pm. #BeingBahati, which is aired on NTV, is just too boring and valueless. Kenyans need to be fed on content that can improve their lives, not just ‘time takers’. — Gynerl Omaya * * * Slay queens: Are we missing a story here? Speaking of ‘slay queens’, or women turning up dead in bathtubs, to quote Njoki Chege, who are they? How do they pull it off? Are they what the French call femme fatale? If so, what are the rules of this game? Are there any? Simply put, could we be missing a good story? — George Marenya * * * Please, why aren’t you responding? I wish the Daily Nation can be open enough to let those interested to get in touch with contributors of articles, which can make a difference in poverty eradication and empowerment of Kenyans. — Amos Coolings Email your views on editorial matters to publiceditor@ke.nationmedia.com  