A total of 16 Harambee Starlets players held their first training session at Utalii grounds on Monday as preparations for the 2018 Africa Women's Cup of Nations (Awcon) slated for November 17 to December 1 in Ghana kicked off in top gear. Coach David Ouma took the 16 through their paces for two hours and expressed optimism of having a full house by Tuesday morning. “We first conducted medical check-ups before testing their fitness levels in the opening session as this will give me a true picture of my squad in order to draw out our targets,” Ouma told journalists at Utalii grounds. He added: “Esse Akida and Marjolene's (Nekesa) travelling logistics are being worked on so that they can join us from Israel and United States respectively, Pauline (Atieno) will join us on Wednesday after her exams.” Kenya, who will be making their second consecutive appearance at the biennial competition following their debut in 2016 in Cameroon, are pooled in group “B” alongside Banyana Banyana of South Africa, Shepolopolo and defending champions Super Falcons of Nigeria. Group “A” has hosts Ghana, Cameroon, Mali and Algeria. The first two teams in each group progress to the semi-finals while the top three at the tourney will earn a ticket to next year’s Fifa Women's World Cup in France to be staged from June 7 to July 7. Starlets, who will play Uganda and Ghana in friendlies, will be based in Cape Coast city and play Zambia in the first match on November 18 at the 15,000-seater Cape Coast Sports Stadium.   Captain Wendy Achieng’ says they head to Ghana a more mature side. “We want to get a win in our first match, this will motivate us to play better in the remaining games,” said the Women Premier League (WPL) side Spedag defender. “We want to use this second chance to improve our standards, market ourselves to the world to have many professionals outside the country. Unlike before, most of the teams in the group are familiar, we just have to approach each game as a final.” Midfielder Mary Kinuthia - who has had a two-month trial stint with Swedish women second division side Dalhem IF alongside Teresa Engesha and Christine Nafula - said the experience picked will help them approach the championship without fear. “The competitiveness, speed and winning mentality in Swedish football was a good learning point, these are some of the things we look forward to sharing with the rest of the team to give the best in Ghana,” pointed out Kinuthia who turns out for Gaspo Youth in the local topflight.   Kenya’s opponents began their preparations early last week.