Kenya’s Harambee Starlets will report for residential training camp in Nairobi on Monday for the 2018 Africa Women's Cup of Nations. The women’s continental final will be held from November 17 to December 1 in Ghana. Football Kenya Federation (FKF) said that a squad of 32 players will begin training on the same day they report to camp. FKF Communication and Public Relations Manager Barry Otieno said the foreign based players were also expected to report in They include Corazon Aquino, Teresha Engesha, Mary Kinuthia and Christine Nafula who attended trials in Sweden in August and were awaiting to sign professional contracts. Others are Marjolene Nekesa (USA) and Esse Akida (Israel). Kenya will be making their second consecutive appearance in Africa following their debut in 2016 in Cameroon. Coach David Ouma’s charges have been placed in a tough Group “B” that also contains Shepolopolo of Zambia, Banyana Banyana of South Africa and Super Falcons of Nigeria who are the defending champions. Kenya’s opponents began their preparations early last week. The East Africans entered this year’s edition after Equatorial Guinea were banned for fielding an ineligible player during their second round qualifying matches against them in June. The tournament will involve eight teams in two groups with the best two from each pool qualifying for the semis. Group “A” has Ghana, Cameroon, Mali and Algeria. Starlets have arranged a friendly match against Black Queens of Ghana in Nairobi on November 7. Ouma said the Starlets will go to Ghana a wiser side than the inexperienced side that played in 2016. SQUAD Goalkeepers - Pauline Atieno (Makolanders), Maureen Shimuli (Wadadia), Annette Kundu (Eldoret Falcons), Monica Karambu (Thika Queens), Diana Tembesi (Wiyeta Girls) Defenders - Lilian Adera (Vihiga Queens), Wendy Achieng (Spedag), Dorcas Shikobe (Oserian), Phelistus Kadari (Vihiga Queens), Wincate Kaari (Thika Queens), Elizabeth Ambogo (Spedag), Maureen Khakasa (Trans Nzoia Falcons), Juliet Auma (Thika Queens), Vivian Nasaka (Vihiga Queens) Midfielders - Gentrix Shikangwa (Wiyeta Girls), Mary Kinuthia (Gaspo Youth), Sheryl Angachi (Gaspo Youth), Ruth Ingosi (Eldoret Falcons), Corazone Aquino (Vihiga Queens), Elizabeth Wambui (Gaspo Youth), Martha Amunyolete (Trans Nzoia Falcons), Christine Nafula (Gaspo Youth), Cynthia Shilwatso (Vihiga Queens), Mercy Achieng (Thika Queens), Cheris Avilia (Spedag) Forwards - Neddy Atieno (Makolanders), Esse Akida (Ramat HaSharon), Mwanahalima Adam (Thika Queens), Janet Bundi (Eldoret Falcons), Teresa Engesha (Vihiga Queens), Phoebe Oketch (Vihiga Queens) na Marjolene Nekesa (USA).  