Ecstatic fans dancing to Isikuti beats stormed the Camp Toyoyo grounds to join Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) players in celebrating their return to the Kenyan Premier League (KPL) immediately referee Amin Agik blew the final whistle to confirm their 2-0 win over Talanta on Sunday. KCB, who are now assured of second place, earned a direct promotion slot alongside leaders Western Stima. The bankers have had ups and downs in the past three seasons that forced a reshuffle in the playing and coaching staff after unsuccessful attempts to regain KPL status. At Afraha stadium, tears rolled down cash-strapped Nakuru AllStars following a humiliating 3-0 defeat to Ushuru on Sunday that confirmed their relegation to the third tier. The two-time KPL champions managed only five wins, six draws and 24 losses accumulating a paltry 21 points in 35 games. Ushuru and Nairobi Stima are level on 68 points at third place as the battle for the KPL promotion/relegation playoff heads to the wire next Saturday. The third-placed team will face Nakumatt in a two-legged playoff whose winner will feature in the top flight competition next season.   Leonard Saleh and John Kamau are some of the coaches who have handled KCB in the past three seasons but none achieved what caretaker coach and former skipper Elvis Ayany did over the weekend. “We were relegated when I was still a player and it has been sad watching the team play in the second tier, I am happy we’ve finally thrown this behind our backs to return where we belong,” said Ayany who took over from John Kamau last month. Ayany admits determination from the playing unit has been the secret but they are not resting on their laurels with two months to the commencement of the 2018/19 SportPesa Premier League (SPL) season. “Right now we want to celebrate the achievement before planning for the topflight, it will be a continuation of what we have been doing down here,” added Ayany. The bankers captain Bethuel Warambo is the only player that remained at the club after being relegated in 2015. “They (KCB) nurtured me from school and despite going down, the management urged me and the rest of the players to stay on and fight to return to the premier league. It has not been easy, it took time but we thank God we are finally back,” said Warambo. He added: “I would urge the management to motivate these players more and most importantly retain the squad because with the spirit we have, we can face any opponent in the top tier.”   Gicheru also secured promotion with Wazito last season.