Have you ever walked into an interviewing room and all of a sudden your stomach started rumbling? Or you were asked for your name and for a moment, you couldn't remember it? You were nervous! The feeling takes many forms. It could be temporary memory loss, distorted speech, sweaty palms, dry mouth, shaky feet, inability to smile and even palpations. Stories abound of many young people who have lost opportunities they are qualified for because they couldn't express themselves during the interview or those who dread interviews because of anxiety. However, it is possible to manage nervousness before and during the interview. Here are some tips to help you beat that feeling: PREPARATION IS KEY If you have a job interview, you need to take it seriously and commit yourself to prepare for it. It begins with researching the organisation in question -know the products and services they offer, their culture and scrutinise the job description to determine your strengths and weaknesses with regard to the particular position. Also, ensure that you are suitably and comfortably dressed for the interview. If it’s your first time to attend an interview in that particular field, it may help to call your friends especially those in the same field and ask for advice on what interviewers ask. KNOW YOUR CV Go through your CV; try to predict the questions that it may prompt and have confident answers to those questions. For example, why are you applying for a job that is on a different career path with your professional background? How do you explain why you have worked for three different organisations in a span of two years? Having these responses in mind will stop you from fidgeting or having a distorted speech while responding to them. Taking a copy of your resume with you is essential. REHEARSE Days before the interview, think of the possible questions you might be asked and sound the responses. You could request a friend to practice with you and ask that they take notes of what you said and describe your nonverbal expressions - posture, hand movements. Through practice, you realise that even the question ‘tell us about yourself’ can be a tricky one. CONFIDENCE Right from the organisation’s gate, carry yourself confidently. Remind yourself that you are qualified for the job and you are determined to give it your best shot. This will help to ease up the unnatural tension. Also, accept the fact that it's normal for everyone to feel a little bit uncomfortable in such a setting. To break the ice, you can engage in a small talk with other interviewees or the receptionist. Give the interviewers a firm handshake and ensure that your sitting position exudes confidence. GENERAL TOPICS DURING CONVERSATIONS An opening in most companies attracts people of different ages, sizes and with different qualifications. At the waiting room, engage in conversation about the general topics such as the weather, economic situation but nothing concerning their qualifications-professional and educational background. If other interviewees have more certifications, you might conclude that they are better than you and this will about anxiety in the interview room. READY FOR UNUSUAL QUESTIONS? If you ask most of the job seekers about how an interview went, they are likely to tell you "I didn’t see such questions coming." You might have well prepared for an interview, but on many occasions, there will be that question that you will find unusual or unrelated to the job you applied for. For instance, if you are being interviewed for an accountant position, would you expect the potential employer to ask you about marketing? Yet, they might. When responding, be confident in your responses and don't be afraid to ask the panel to repeat the question. RELAXATION TECHNIQUES Most human resource practitioners agree that being confident and relaxed during the interview not only gives you an edge on others but it also makes the interviewing panel attentive and interested. Ensure that you have enough sleep the previous night, take a healthy breakfast on the material day and arrive some minutes earlier before the interview starts. From the previous interviews, if you know keeping calm is not one of your strengths, you might seek professional help. BE RATIONAL If you enter into the interviewing room with a negative mind that you are not going to be picked up for the job, chances are that you will mess up the interview. The fact that you were called in for the interview is proof that they saw your potential for the position. Remind yourself of the things you've achieved and use those to build your confidence. Rationalising your fears helps you to think of it as a meeting rather as an interview which enforces the fact that it's a two-way process.  