The Interior Ministry says it is battling to save the careers of dozens of alcoholic administrators. The government has already begun funding rehabilitation for scores of county commissioners, their deputies, chiefs and assistant chiefs in many parts of the country. On Friday, a senior official at the ministry, who spoke off the record, said alcoholism "has reached a crisis level”. “We no longer treat it as indiscipline. It is a disease and we have set up counselling centres to handle the cases,” the official told the Nation. Several regional and county commissioners interviewed admitted that alcohol abuse among their juniors is a crisis. Nakuru County chief Joshua Nkanatha said a number of chiefs are struggling with alcoholism despite efforts by the government to help them. ILLICIT BREW He added that the problem is a setback in the fight against illicit liquor. “When we realised that alcoholism is a disease, we took the decision to help the chiefs. Some of the measures put in place are rehabilitation and routine counselling,” Mr Nkanatha said. Bomet is among the most affected counties, with seven chiefs expected to be admitted to rehabilitation centres. One is already in such a centre in Nakuru, according to Bomet County Commissioner Geoffrey Omoding. “The cost of admission and treatment will be met by the government,” Mr Omoding added. Lelaitich sub-chief Edwin Sang has been at the rehab for a month. PROBATION Mr Omoding said the chief would be under probation for three months after he leaves the centre. Cheboin assistant chief Wilson Kezembe has also admitted being a slave to the bottle. “It started as a pastime. I would meet friends after office hours to talk over a drink and it became a habit. In vain have I attempted to stop drinking," the assistant chief said when Bomet East Deputy County Commissioner Stella Langat visited him at home. "Those who have not tasted alcohol should never attempt it." Kiptulwa assistant chief Samwel Keter is waiting to be booked at the centre. The administrator has already been suspended. His Koibeyon counterpart Joseph Koskei has been battling alcoholism for years. REHABILITATION "It has been a rough and winding road, but thank God I am recovering," he said. Some chiefs, however, said the decision to send them for rehabilitation is unfair. Last year, two chiefs in Bomet were arrested during an operation, locked up in cells before being arraigned for being drunk. The two administrators and the other locals who pleaded guilty were fined Sh500. REINSTATED In Sotik, Kiptulwo chief Leonard Too died of what his seniors said were alcohol related complications. The extent of the crisis came to the bare during a function attended by President Uhuru Kenyatta in Nakuru on March 23, 2016. An inebriated assistant chief in uniform staggered to the dais. Mr Joseph Rotich was dismissed but was later reinstated after rehabilitation. Report by Benson Amadala, Vitalis Kimutai, Joseph Openda, Magati Obebo, Joe Openda, Steve Njuguna and Waikwa Maina   Chiefs in Nyanza region have asked the government to provide the equipment needed in the fight against illicit brew.