Fishermen and traders have expressed divergent views over President Uhuru Kenyatta’s proposal for a ban on fish imports from China to protect the local industry. In coastal counties, fishermen have welcomed the ban and asked the State to equip them with modern fishing vessels to enable them compete fairly with foreign fishers. "We had opposed Chinese fish imports but the government officials said it was necessitated due to deficit. But now that the President has banned the imports, we want him to provide us with enough fibre boats and machines to increase production,” said Mr Hamid Mohammed, chairman of the Wavuvi Association of Kenya. “If we get proper equipment, we can increase our catch to 200kg daily from 30kg to 50kg currently,” he said adding that Kwale, Tana River and Lamu counties have a lot of fish including red snapper and tuna. On Tuesday, during the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) Presidential Roundtable at Strathmore University, President Kenyatta said the government would be tactful in banning the fish imports. “Why are we importing fish from China yet our colleagues are fishing? Even if the Finance Bill has passed, think outside the box... There are many ways the government can work to ensure our people benefit if we are really intent on serving our people honestly,” Mr Kenyatta said. The Wavuvi Association of Kenya said there are 100 landing sites in coast with more than 30,000 membership. A fish trader at Majengo market in Mombasa, Mr Samuel Abiero, said the ban is a blessing. “The President made the best choice. He should emulate his Tanzanian counterpart John Magufuli who is protecting his citizens from imports," Mr Abiero said. In Kisumu, where a number of locals have welcomed the proposal as a “big milestone towards securing the livelihoods of Lake Victoria residents”, traders have urged caution. Ms Jennifer Achieng’ from Aluor in Siaya County warned such an order could trigger a shortage as Lake Victoria fish cannot satisfy the local demand.   Fish stocks are declining at an alarming rate due to destruction of wetlands.