A two-day conference on security in Kenya's northeast begins in Mandera County today. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i was to be the main speaker but he will be out of the country on official duties. The summit will be attended by governors Ali Roba (Mandera), Ali Korane (Garissa), Mohamed Kuti (Isiolo), Mohamed Abdi (Wajir) and Mohamed Mahmud (Marsabit). It will be the first time all sitting and past political leaders, State security agencies, elders and youth representatives from the region will be speaking with one voice against fighting Al-Shabaab and violent extremism. During Mashujaa Day celebrations at Moi Stadium in Mandera town, Mr Roba who has survived several attempts on his life, decried insecurity in northeastern Kenya. The Mashujaa Day event was attended by Mandera East MP Omar Maalim, his Mandera South counterpart Adan Haji and other leaders. “We want to demonstrate political goodwill and commitment towards deradicalising our youth,” Mr Roba said. He said the region is suffering as a result of attacks, adding that the socio-economic development is also threatened. The conference comes as the Senate is discussing Prevention of Terrorism Act (Amendment) bill to ensure that all school administrators are charged with the duty of preventing radicalization and violent extremism activities in their respective domains. Nominated Senator Naomi Waqo is the bill’s sponsor. The influx of terror gangs and their activities have made the region vulnerable with nearly 70 percent of residents living in poverty and have poor access to basic services. While the terror group is targeting only locals in Somalia, it has changed tact to pit Kenyans against each other by targeting the non-locals in the North Eastern region. Among those that have borne the brunt of the terror group include non- locals working in the education sector, health and those in quarry among others. Only two weeks ago, the county lost two non-local teachers after their house was attacked with explosives at Arabia Secondary School, making the county the home to statistics in the region. The number of security officers Kenya has lost to IEDs is rising as more people around the region are increasingly getting more open to acts of violent extremism in different forms. However, Mandera County Commissioner Olaka Kutswa, speaking during the Mashujaa Day fete, challenged the area leaders to cooperate in the war against terror. “You should not just be speaking about what the government should do to eliminate this problem. Point out the individuals involved because you congregate in Mosques and other places where the non- Muslims don’t have the privilege of hearing what you people are discussing,” Mr Kutswa said.  