Celebrated musician Joseph Kamaru, who died on Wednesday evening at the MP Hospital in Nairobi, will be fondly remembered by many for not only his artistic prowess, but also his rich lyrics in the Gĩkũyũ language, capturing various themes ranging from political, cultural, social, and love ballads, to songs anchored on human interest. To many other musicians from central Kenya, Kamaru was the undisputed father figure, having inspired most of them into an exciting career. He held them by the band with recordings and productions of their songs at his studio in Nairobi.   KIKUYU FORK SONGS One of the cornerstones of his illustrious musical career was his reworking of Kikuyu folk songs, some of which had been dominant as a form of defiance during the Mau Mau uprising from the early 1950s. He later reworked some of the tracks into various versions like the adult only songs. Kamaru who died at 79, had a career dating back to 1957, when he moved from his native Kangema in Murang’a to the capital, Nairobi, in search of greener pastures. He first worked as a houseboy, but once he launched himself into music, there was no turning back. His distinct dressing style saw him don American cowboy straw hats and high boots which saw him fondly referred by some of his adoring fans as “the Kenyan Don Williams or Jim Reeves”. LONG ILLNESS Speaking to the Daily Nation Thursday, family spokesman Peter Irungu said Kamaru had succumbed to a long ailment, which started as a back problem. The family has moved his body moved from MP Shah Hospital to the Kenyatta University mortuary as funeral plans continue. “The family members are still in the preliminary consultations on the funeral arrangements,” he said. Besides his home in Thome estate on Nairobi's north-western outskirts, the veteran singer also had land in Kaharati in Murang’a County and his ancestral home in Kangema. KAMARU @70 Mr Irungu will be remembered by those who keenly followed Kamaru's career as one of the organisers of a musical comeback concert dubbed “Kamaru @70” that was held in 2009 at the Carnivore Restaurant in Nairobi. It was also at the Carnivore where Kamaru was at the forefront in staging shows by Kenyan groups, the venue having earlier been dominated by visiting top musicians, including Congolese superstars. Kamaru would later in the 1990s make a big switch from secular to gospel music. Earlier this year, Kamaru was hospitalised amid speculation about his deteriorating health. He had then kept a low profile as recuperated at his residence in Nairobi. EULOGISED Veteran singer Daniel Kamau (DK), also a leading musician from central Kenya, Thursday eulogised Kamaru as the person who inspired him into the music recording business. “When I first came to Nairobi, it was Kamaru who inspired me into recording and producing my music and we will remember him for the inspiration he gave us in the music industry," he said. As for Peter Kigia, also a leading musician from central Kenya, Kamaru will be remembered for his boldness in his lyrics. "Many of us got inspired into music production by Kamaru,” Kigia said. Other leading artistes from central Kenya who interacted with Kamaru during his long career included James Wahome Maingi, CDM Kiratu, Albert Gacheru and the late Mwalimu James Mbugua.   INSPIRED BY KAMARU From Kangema, Kamaru inspired, among others, the late Queen Jane and Simon Kihara (Musaimo), into live and recording performances. Kamaru’s illustrious musical career was never short of controversies. The lyrics of his songs at times rubbed some of those in power the wrong way. For instance, the ever-popular Muhiki wa Mikosi was a social commentary about a woman who was considered jinxed with ill luck to the extent that anyone having an affair with her would find himself in a trouble. Other popular songs by include Nuu Ucio, Wendo wa Cebe Cebe and Charia Ungi.   INTERACTED WITH PRESIDENTS His colourful musical career saw him interact with the founding President Mzee Jomo Kenyatta and also retired President Daniel arap Moi. His closeness to Mr Moi saw him accompany him on an official visit to Japan in 1980 after which Kamaru composed probably his first major song in Kiswahili “Safari ya Japan”. Kamaru also performed during the wedding reception of President Uhuru Kenyatta and his wife Margaret Kenyatta in 1990. One of the most exciting events in Kamaru’s career was in 1989, when performed alongside visiting Congolese musician Kanda Bongoman at the Nyayo National Stadium. The organisers of the show had packaged it as contest between the two and this paid off as the stadium overflowed with enthusiastic fans. It was a great honour for Kamau to share the glory with dancing and singing star Kanda, whose performances on the Urtna exchange programme Kenyans loved.   It's a big loss, says president.