There has been a flurry of public interest lately in the idea of ''sponsors'', even if it is hardly a new phenomenon. A sponsor is typically an older well-resourced man who provides material support to a younger (often much younger) woman, in exchange for a sexual or otherwise intimate relationship. BBC Africa’s September feature ''Sex and the Sugar Daddy'' comes to mind as the most comprehensive piece on the phenomenon, and includes personal stories and short documentaries. The gist of the feature is that these types of transactional relationships are no longer taking place in the shadows, and are to some extent publicly accepted. The recent high-profile killings of women in sponsor relationships have further driven media and public discourse into the stratosphere. WHO'S RESPONSIBLE? What is astonishing in all this is that the media coverage and public conversation almost exclusively focus on the women in these relationships. The BBC feature, for example, contrary to its title, only interviews women who have or are seeking sponsors. Other discussions, including on social media, focus on the lifestyles and the morality of the women involved. This is astonishing because there seems to be some sort of implicit social agreement that the responsibility, and therefore blame, for sponsor relationships rests solely on the women. And not just the women in the relationships, but also their mothers, who, it is said, should have raised them better, and other women in sponsor relationships including ''socialites'' who are ''misleading fellow women''. Oh, and let’s not forget sponsors’ wives, who are also somehow responsible for their husbands’ choices. The sponsors themselves are largely protected against public scrutiny and debate, of course until something goes horribly wrong like in recent events. Why is this? With sponsors being typically married men with children and, more often than not, well known business men, politicians, pastors, or community leaders, one would think that their moral or lifestyle choices would be the most questioned. This is much so considering the religious context we say we live in. Sponsors, magically, have escaped all judgement and have instead been blessed with enduring anonymity. Don’t get me wrong - I am not a proponent of discussing the sexual lives of consenting adults. But our society’s gendered and sexist way of addressing the issue of sponsors is harmful, and even deadly. HIV Beyond individual cases, we need to have a much more equal, respectful and nuanced conversation about this phenomenon, including how it impacts our society in general. In South Africa, research has long shown that sugar daddies or ''blessers'' are the main drivers of the HIV epidemic. In Kenya, married couples and those in stable relationships account for the highest percentage of new HIV infections. We will never make progress in stemming HIV if we don’t have a serious discussion with both men and women, sponsors and ''sponsees''. A recent conversation with a clinician revealed that married women are increasingly going for pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) because they know of their husband’s concurrent, unprotected sexual relationships, and therefore want to protect themselves - another example where the burden and responsibility for men’s actions fall on women alone! GENDER-BASED VIOLENCE Allowing sponsors to remain in the shadows also creates the perfect environment for violence. These relationships are a product of the vast inequality that exists in our society between the rich, and the poor and between men and women. Sponsors are often a doorway out of poverty for young women who find themselves unable to find other equally efficient avenues. The power dynamic, the commodification of women’s bodies, and the public life the sponsor wants to protect result in violence against the women. Tragically, the woman will still be blamed for being so vulnerable as to want a sponsor in the first place, or being so audacious as to make demands of her sponsor. Either way, it is said she brought the violence on herself. Victims of gender-based violence rarely report, and this kind of shaming is one of the reasons why. We have let the debate on sponsorship degenerate into one that shames and violates women. If sponsor relationships are, in fact, coming off the shadows, let us hear from and about the men too. It could lead to a more honest discussion about the root causes of class and gender inequality in our society, and stop the highly sexist and demeaning narrative about women’s sexuality that we are all feeding. If we do it right, it could even help us develop better interventions to prevent the spread of HIV and other sexually transmitted infections, and perhaps even prevent the violence against, and killings of, many young women in our midst. The writer is a policy specialist in gender equality and sexual and reproductive health and rights. She writes here in her own capacity.   Violence against women touches Uganda just as it does every other nation. Gender-based violence is a global pandemic that cuts across all borders - ethnic, racial, class, religious, and educational level.