My day starts at 5am with devotion and prayer. Governors need divine guidance to navigate the devolution journey. By the time I am done with grooming, several constituents have arrived to see me. Students need bursaries, there will be a harambee here and there, a patient has been detained at a hospital outside Makueni, I must help solve a land dispute (even sometimes a marital disagreement). The Governor is sometimes considered to be an African traditional chief — you are the area father and provider to all, including elected leaders. On this day, about 10 people are waiting. These are few. Some of my colleagues serve up to 50 people in the morning session. Three people have been sent by a church to invite me to a worship and thanksgiving service. PRAISE But before the citizens present their issues, they first appreciate what the county government has done. People are smart. They first praise you to the skies and then, when you become “soft”, they petition. Sometimes when I say that the budget doesn’t allow some of the demands or that the citizens should see my county executives or other officers, I am told I am the one who was given the votes “and the sun was very hot on election day”. While in the shower, I was thinking about what to do to trim the 2018/2019 budget in light of the current budget cuts. Currently, I live in my rural home 45km away from the county headquarters. The traffic on my way to work is usually boda boda, donkeys, dogs, oxen-pulled carts and occasionally pedestrians. As I pass through about 10 market centres on my way to Wote, I know it is a cardinal sin to drive past with my car windows closed. Once women fruit sellers told me an MP lost his seat because he developed the habit of cruising past their business centre without greeting them. MARKET Often I have to stop for community palaver and tea. This is not merely a public relations exercise. I learn what is going on in the county. I am informed of officers who are inept and of projects which have stalled. People assess the performance of ministers. I am not spared direct complaints against myself and my deputy. My Makueni people will comment on anything. If you steal from county citizens, they can walk to your mother (mine is alive and strong) and tell her “your son is a common thief”. They can tell your spouse too. During my car ride, I read or interact with social media. Governors spend a lot of time on the road. I may also make job-related and social phone calls. Receiving calls is a challenge because one’s phone continues to ring incessantly. As you drive people shout greetings or command you to stop. Many times you tell them you can’t stop because you have an early meeting in the office. SOCIAL HEALTH The young people are not usually impressed. They know when you stop you must “leave something” behind. During these rides, I like to observe whether people are healthy, well dressed or happy. In other words, what is their social health? What often disturbs me is the number of shops which are perpetually closed, others which are opened on Saturdays and Sundays and a few on a daily basis. The rural economy is seemingly not robust in terms of purchasing power. However, there is a flurry of building work in the major urban centres courtesy of devolution with multi-storey buildings a common feature. Once in the office, with deputy governor or the county secretary, the chief of staff and any other available county executive member, we revisit the day’s plan — which would usually have been agreed on the previous evening. PLANNING We get reports from the sub-wards, wards and sub-counties. Officers at that level keep occurrence books in which they record major events. We then decide how to respond to the burning issues. County executive members and chief officers have a right to see me about any issue. They may book an appointment or walk in if I am free. They usually see me for issues that they require my input. Otherwise they exercise delegated authority. Other officers and community groups can also book appointments. Usually this relates to major issues which other officials cannot solve or political issues. For example, some have recently come to report about the Nolturesh water problem, the Tsavo River/Mtito Andei boundary issue, the Konza and Thwake dam projects. There are citizens who come to see me for issues that our departments or even lower levels of administration can solve. They are not happy when I refer them back to the relevant officers. On some occasions I also consult with the national administration offices on some issues. DONORS In the office we host major meetings with development partners and non-State actors. When we are developing proposals for funding, they often prefer to come to Makueni to determine the viability of the project in question. Donors can help to supplement the funds that we get from our own sources and the National Treasury. We also host conferences, workshops and benchmarking officers from other counties. In the afternoon, I often go to inspect, launch or commission projects. When a project is successful, the beneficiaries, through their project management and local management committees, are happy. However, we also find projects that are bedevilled with problems and we have to find solutions. FIELD TRIP In the evening of the same day, I sit with the county administration and local leaders to discuss various issues. If the following day I have a mission in Nairobi, I will usually travel overnight to avoid morning traffic. If not, I go back home. Often I will be home late either from a field trip or from office engagement. Balancing the governor’s day and the family day is not easy. However, I know devolution is the future of Kenya and it requires a robust foundation. I always wish we never suspended the “majimbo” devolution of the 1960s. Prof Kibwana is Makueni Governor  