For Kenya to achieve President Uhuru Kenyatta’s flagship ‘Big Four’ agenda, a coherent and effective national quality infrastructure anchored on internationally established parameters is needed. That refers to all aspects of metrology, standardisation, testing and quality management, including certification and accreditation, for both public and private institutions, and the regulatory framework within which they operate. These five components are the hallmark of the quality of products and services and build confidence in the production and service industry. Cultivation and entrenchment of a culture of unequivocal and unbroken chain of processes in all socio-economic processes will guarantee production and consumption of quality products and services. MARKETS A strong total quality infrastructure will enable the country to attain the quality requirements demanded by local and international markets, spurring growth in trade and industry. It forms the link between international standards and technical regulations, guarantees reliable measurements and sets up a globally recognised accreditation. The ultimate goal here is for the products to meet local market requirements — that is, to satisfy consumer needs and also protect human and animal lives and the environment. The basis of modern trade is technology-intensive manufactured goods, not raw materials. There is a need to add value and determine the quality of the manufactured products. Industries are required to transform effectively and safely the raw materials into premium-value products much sought after by the population. METROLOGY In the matrix of these processes, quality may be improved or compromised. Similarly, by-products might be harmful and pose a serious threat to life and environment. This delicate balance between industry-driven trade and quality can be established by a strong quality infrastructure. Measurements must be reliable and traceable to international standards. This requires well-equipped laboratories for physical and chemical standards, certified reference materials as well as legal and industrial metrology and a system for calibration. ACCURATE Internationally acceptable standards of products, systems and processes, strengthened by mutual recognition agreements and international accreditation entities, promote international trade. In this regard, the national quality infrastructure helps to break down the technical barriers to trade and promote integration in the world trading system, improves consumer and environmental protection and gives a positive impact on the labour market, income levels and quality of life. The first component, metrology and testing, has the paramount mandate of implementing science of measurements and its applications through calibration of measuring equipment and testing of chemical or physical characteristics of a product. Reliable, recognisable and accurate measurement results anchored on the international system of units (SI units) are imperative for making trade decisions and ascertaining product compliance in terms of quality and safety requirements. CERTIFICATION Correct declaration of the products’ test composition by a competent lab not only increases sales but promotes development of new products, boosting manufacturing and creating jobs. Secondly, product and service quality certification, which includes standardisation, certification and accreditation, together with product prices and applications, guarantee competitiveness in national and international markets. Through competitiveness, enterprises can maintain their national markets. Also, access to new markets allows them to expand and create jobs and higher economic incomes. The infrastructure can help to ensure legitimate compliance with health, safety and environmental concerns for export and import purposes but also for internal consumption. Dr Muriira (PhD), a biochemist and quality infrastructure expert, heads the Testing Services Department at the Kenya Bureau of Standards. karaugm2@gmail.com.  