I was surprised recently to hear former official opposition leader Raila Odinga tell Kenyans to start getting ready for a referendum. Referendum on what? Referendum for what? Referendum for who? Frankly, I think the man is losing it. Mr Odinga should know as well as anyone that a plebiscite unleashed before voters have had the chance to openly discuss the questions and reach broad consensus is bound for abject failure. Kenyans are not mindless robots. The era when they followed like sheep the dictates of tribal chieftains is coming to an end. Mr Odinga may be suffering the delusion that any referendum question pushed jointly with his ‘handshake’ partner, President Uhuru Kenyatta, is bound for adoption because of the powerful political formations they respectively head. IRRELEVANT He will be in for a rude shock. His Nasa ‘opposition’ grouping exists in name only. The pallbearers are at the ready and the grave diggers have swung into action. There is little left for Mr Odinga to command. President Kenyatta is in a similar situation with his ‘ruling’ Jubilee Party. With all key players turning their attention to their place in the post–Kenyatta era, the President is being reduced to irrelevance. Even when the issue is condensed to the baser elements of ethnic chieftainship, neither of the two holds the awesome sway they once held in their respective blocs. Mr Odinga’s ‘Luo Nation’ in his ODM vehicle will no longer board, disembark, stop, turn left, turn right or reverse at his command. They will want to know why, the destination and the route map. He succeeded his father, Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, as the unchallenged champion of the community's political aspirations but the allure is fading as prospects of reaching the ‘Promised Land’ diminish. DIALOGUE President Kenyatta’s hold on his own ‘Kikuyu Nation’ within the TNA wing of Jubilee is even more tenuous. He rode to power on the back of a mind-numbing personality cult built around his emergence as the son of his father, President Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, defender of his peoples’ political, economic and security interests. The allure is fading, too, as he serves out a final term and constituents cast their eyes over his head. If Mr Odinga and President Kenyatta have determined that their ‘Building Bridges’ initiative will need constitutional amendments of a magnitude that requires a referendum, they must first involve the people in genuine national dialogue. Many applauded the famous handshake on the steps of Harambee House, Nairobi, when the President and his principal foe declared that they had put aside post-election rancour. TRUCE Support for the handshake was built around the hope that it was not just about a temporary political accommodation or a cessation of the Odinga-Kenyatta dynastic feud. We all hoped it was the beginning of an honest national conversation towards resolving the intractable ethnic, political, economic and social schisms that pollute the land and every so often wreak death and destruction on a genocidal scale. Some of the issues were identified, a secretariat established and elders named to drive the dialogue. Nearly seven months later, other than a call for submissions and periodic updates supplied to President Kenyatta and Mr Odinga, there has been no progress towards the convention of a ‘Kenya We Want’ dialogue. Before any meaningful discussion has taken place, we are suddenly confronted with that stuck record of the demand for a referendum. UNITY A referendum cannot be an end in itself. It cannot be a simple mechanism to give Mr Odinga a place at the feeding trough or confer on Mr Kenyatta some relevance after expiry of his presidential term. Neither can it be called for the purpose of settling Jubilee rifts as Deputy President William Ruto abandons the party purpose and focuses all his efforts on the race to replace President Kenyatta in 2022. Before we can even talk about a referendum, ‘Building Bridges’ must go beyond a Raila-Uhuru deal. HEALING Only all-inclusive dialogue can identify our most pressing problems and recommend solutions that can then be presented for consideration by all Kenyans. The two principals may have accurately identified our problems and come up with fairly solid prescriptions. Kenya, however, is bigger than the duo. National healing, reconciliation and renewal must extend beyond two individuals and secure the participation, trust and ownership of all in Kenya. Without that, anything brought for a referendum is destined for crushing defeat. Within Jubilee it will be fought, openly or covertly, by Mr Ruto and his 2022 hordes. In Nasa, it will be fought by all those who think Mr Odinga has sold the opposition down the river. gaithomail@gmail.com Twitter: @MachariaGaitho  