Political parties are vehicles for campaigns to national leadership. They form the unit for political mobilisation and engagement. As political entities, they are guided by democratic principles. Not only must they promote democracy but must live it. That is the only way they give confidence to the public that they can be entrusted with the instruments of power. Increasingly, we have seen political parties shrinking democratic space by whipping MPs to vote in a particular manner in Parliament and to act according to pre-determined lines entirely pushed by party leaders and hawks. This is a threat to democracy. Recent row over tax proposals made by President Uhuru Kenyatta after he rejected the Finance Bill that had earlier been passed by Parliament brought this matter to the fore. RIGHTS In the countdown to the second vote in Parliament, Jubilee and ODM leaders attempted to rally their troops to vote along party lines — in fact, according to the wishes of their leaders. But that was not to be. MPs went on to vote according to their wishes and in exercise of their democratic rights, which fact did not go down well with party leaders. Parties may hold particular positions on certain matters but cannot curtail rights of MPs, whose first obligation is to the voters and whose interest they must represent at all times. Subjugating voters’ rights and interest is an affront to democracy. OUSTER As we report elsewhere in this edition, the Minority Coalition in Parliament is seeking to shuffle its members who head various House committees. Ordinarily, that would be treated as routine administrative task. But in this particular case, the motivation is suspect. MPs who are viewed as independent minded, often taking own positions on national issues guided by the common good, are being targeted for ouster from committees. Unless there are other facts unknown to the public, committee leaders or members should not just be thrown out at the behest of a few party apparatchiks. We must guard against party dictatorship, which left unchecked, permeates to other aspects of politics and ultimately undermines the principles of good governance. COURAGE Parliament requires strong committees to check the Executive. Committee members and their chairpersons should be individuals with sound competence in their respective areas of specialisation. Additionally, they must be people with the courage and discernment to challenge the status quo and stand for what is right. Populating the committees with subservient individuals is a disservice to the House and the nation at large. Appointment to the House committees should not be turned into rewards for party loyalty. House Speaker should guard against arbitrary shuffling of committees to serve selfish party or political interests.  