I went to a disco last Friday after abstaining for a long time. What I found amazing about this disco is that basically everyone was a good dancer. And I know this because I’m one of the world’s worst dancers. As I gracefully retire from dancing, I am lucky to have survived alive albeit with severe injuries on my body, ego and pocket. THREE ERAS My illustrious dancing career can be broken down into three significant eras. I am sure that sounds intelligent especially if I am describing such an unremarkable issue like dancing. Today I shall dwell on the first era. I started my rudimentary dancing on a machine called a juke box. For those born after the year 2000 and think they know stuff, let me give school you. A juke box is the modern-day version of an IPod, only that its size was equal to a 20foot container.  To break it down further, the juke box was the size of a telephone booth. I highly suspect that you didn’t find those ones either. The juke box was placed inside a bar with one tiny hole to slip in your 5bob coin to select your song. The five bob coin, fondly referred to a kobole, had just been born with all its ten ugly corners and 20kg weight. There was another small screen to select your song from, with name of song and singer or band displayed. No one knows what the other parts inside the box consisted of, and we didn’t care. One thing I have never understood is why we used to pay 5bob, in the early nineties, just to listen to one song. Sometimes the juke box would swallow the 5bob and refuse to play your choice. You  would be left there looking embarrassed, kicking and punching the machine to release your coin to no success. But you would still go home and come back the following day with another kobole and try your luck. So every Sunday afternoon, I would slip a coin into the front pocket of my baggy trousers. I would show up in front of the duke box ready to make my choice and make an impact in the music industry. I would hold  my coin and wait around for a few more people to select so that I could enjoy a few more songs before I picked mine. Those days everyone danced vigorously, and I would hover around stealing a few killer moves from some of the boys around who had visited from Nairobi or who had access to televisions and had watched Rarewatts, Jam City and Soukous Party dancers in the Win-a-Car dancing competition of the nineties. UNIQUE FEATURE Another unique feature about the bars of those days is that each one of them had a dance floor. It was a wide circle in the middle of the bar with smooth terrazzo or tiles floor and magnificent lighting above. It was just reserved for dancing. It was considered holy ground and under no circumstances were chairs and tables ever placed there. After the crowd had subsided and people had used up all their koboles, I would retrieve mine and carefully make my choice. Once in a while you would press the wrong choice and just stand there and hear your kobole being wasted on a song you had no clue about. If successful, I would join the dancers on the floor, dropping all the moves I had seen and learnt. Sometimes a move you had rehearsed at home would just evaporate from your system and you would land on the floor with a thud, all your ego landing with you. On a better day, everything would seem to fall into place and moves would flow and from the corner of your eye you would catch a few poor dancers looking at you with eyes full of admiration and envy. Soon my kobole worth of song would wind down, but not before the song reached its climax. All songs had a climax where you now jumped up and down and did the legendary 180 degrees split plus let out a moan. Finally it would be over, and I would hang around some more in case someone else had a spare kobole to give us just one more song. The “visit” to the disco showed me that my juke box dance moves had no place in the DJ-led discos.    I usually dedicate September to my annual medical check-ups.