Disappointed greeted hundreds of elite and upcoming athletes in Kapsabet on Sunday during the Chicago Marathon 'viewerthon' party held at Stevenice Hotel, Nandi County. The event, which has now popularly become known as a “marathon viewerthon”, was organized by the Bank of Africa in partnership with LG Electronics, Kenya Revenue Authority, Anti-Doping Agency, Fly Tristar, a local airline operating from Wilson Airport and Banda Homes. However, the mood changed drastically at the end of the men's race after Great Britain's Mo Farah emerged victorious. Amos Kipruto, who came second in the Berlin Marathon, expressed optimism that Kenyans will perform better next month during the New York marathon. "All I can say is that the weather in Chicago was favourable. Even though we did not give our best, I am confident that we are going to perform well in New York," said Kipruto, who was flanked by Mathew Kisorio. Nandi Sports Executive Elly Kurgat lauded Team Kenya saying that Chicago is one of the most difficult courses in the world. "The weather might have been favourable in Chicago but sometimes it is challenging running below 15 degrees. We clearly dominated in both the men and women races," said Kurgat. Bank of Africa Head of Marketing Jimmy Wanjohi said that they were overwhelmed with the turnout at the 'viewerthon'. "We have had over 500 participants and this being our fifth year sponsoring this event we shall keep on connecting well with our athletes and supporting local talent," said Wanjohi. Fly TriStar Head of Marketing Donald Kigali said that the airline had forged a mutual partnership with athletes, connecting them to different destinations in the country upon flying back from global events. "We are also giving free air tickets to our athletes who do us proud because that is the only way we can reward them in a good way," said Kigali, adding that the airline that operates from Wilson Airport in Nairobi flies to over six destinations in the country.   He becomes the first British man to win the Chicago Marathon since Paul Evans 22 years ago.