A 12-year-old-boy was killed and eight children injured when a grenade, that one of them was playing with, exploded at an orphanage in Burat Ward, Isiolo County. The incident took place at about 3pm on Monday at a home known as Victor's homestead in Emegen. The orphanage is funded by Global Hope Church. SECOND DEVICE The child who died was a class two pupil. One of those injured is a candidate of the Kenya Certificate of Secondary School examinations, who had just returned to the home after rehearsals for the tests that will begin on Tuesday. The grenade exploded near the boy’s dormitory, shortly after a party with representatives from a mobile company who had visited. Another explosive devise that was found in the compound was detonated by bomb experts. The victims, some critically injured, were rushed to Isiolo County Referral Hospital. The county security team, including officers of the Kenya Defense Forces (KDF), the Directorate of Criminal Investigation (DCI), administration and regular police, and education officials visited the home. COMMON INCIDENT Isiolo County Commissioner John Ondego said that the device was buried in the area during clashes early this year. “Such incidents have been happening. Children collect the devices and play with them, unaware of the danger that lurks," Mr Ondego said. He asked the public to be wary and alert police when they come across suspicious devices. “The incident should not worry candidates and locals, exams will not be disrupted since the government has provided security,” he added. He said the candidate will be examined to see if he can write the tests. WARS Pastor Martin Miriti, the founder of the orphanage, termed the incident unfortunate and noted that the area is prone to such occurrences due to past wars. The county has been plagued by attacks by warring communities and terror group Al-Shabaab. In July, tension was high in Eldera on the Isiolo-Garissa border after three people were shot dead and three others wounded in clashes pitting two groups. Garba Tula Deputy County Commissioner Victor Kamonde said the warring groups were from Garba Tula and Lagdera in Isiolo and Garissa counties respectively.   Police say cause of the gun fight has not yet been established.