Former Chief Justice Willy Mutunga has advised Kenya to set up an independent public inquiry into the Sh5 trillion debt amassed since independence, immediately raising opposition from the Treasury. Public debt stood at Sh5.04 trillion in June 2018, up from Sh1.89 trillion in June 2013. The ex-CJ spoke when he was unveiled as the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) ambassador, to exhort Kenyans to pay debt. “We need a commission of public inquiry into public debt since independence,” said Dr Mutunga on Monday. He said the inquiry would help examine how the debt has been utilised by the State so far in turn boosting transparency in the use of public resources. In a swift rejoinder, however, Treasury secretary Henry Rotich dismissed the need for an inquiry saying records on Kenya’s public debt are publicly available since independence. He added that the government had been transparent in how it has used borrowed funds. “All the public information is available, the government has been transparent,” said Mr Rotich. President Kenyatta is expected to accumulate nearly Sh2.13 trillion more in public debt by the time his final term ends in August 2022, the Treasury projections show, signalling increased pressure on taxpayers’ funds. Treasury chiefs project in draft Budget Review and Outlook Paper that total debt will jump to nearly Sh7.17 trillion in the year ending June 2022. Dr Mutunga maintained the issue of public debt is an emotive one for the already overburdened taxpayers, adding that such an inquiry would help clear lingering questions on prudent use of public funds. “The questions may never go away if we don’t address this,” said Dr Mutunga. Early this year, Auditor-General Edward Ouko renewed the controversy surrounding the Sh215.5 billion that Kenya borrowed via of a Eurobond, saying its receipt and spending are yet to be ascertained.   International ratings agency maintains its long-term rating on Kenya’s foreign and local currency  at ‘B+’ but with a negative outlook.