Embattled Migori Governor Okoth Obado is now at a general ward in Kenyatta National Hospital undergoing various tests as doctors try to come up with a diagnosis for what is ailing him. Mr Obado, who was last month charged with the murder of Ms Sharon Otieno and her seven-month-old foetus, has been in remand at Industrial Area Prison as the case continues. He was admitted to KNH's private wing on Wednesday evening complaining of swellings on his face and other parts of his body, according to his lawyer Cliff Ombeta. PRIVATE WING The Nation has learnt that Mr Obado has since been transferred to a general ward and is being held in a side room closely guarded by armed policemen. “We don’t understand why they are holding my client in the general ward when they have a private facility at their disposal. I am headed there right now to find out what is happening,” Mr Ombeta said when contacted for comment Thursday. He later switched off his phone. It comes as a surprise that the governor is being held with the general population because it has been common for high-flying government officials to be admitted to the private wing of the hospital in case they fall ill while in police custody. In June this year, for instance, former Youth Affairs Principal Secretary Lillian Omollo, who was arrested for being one of the key suspects in a corruption scandal involving the National Youth Service, was admitted at KNH’s private wing and accorded VIP treatment. LUXURY The Nation reported that Ms Omollo’s hospital stay was a far cry from the prison conditions that her fellow suspects were languishing in; her diet alone was far from the standard prison fare of badly cooked ugali and chunks of spinach. She instead feasted on meals that would not be out of place in a regular middle income Kenyan household — fish fingers, beef stew, cereals for breakfast and juices. Mr Obado was denied bail last week amid protests from his supporters in his county, who have taken to the streets several times to demand his release. Ms Otieno, 26, will be buried on October 19 at her grandparents' home in Homa Bay County.   Obado has been in remand at Industrial Area Prison.