Plans by county governments to set aside money for the construction of palatial houses for senior officials have always been resisted by residents and ward representatives. In light of this, several devolved governments have shelved plans to build houses for their governors, deputy county bosses and assembly Speakers. But some devolved governments are still in a rush to buy land and build homes for senior officials even after the Senate capped the cost of a governor’s official house at Sh45 million. PAYING RENT Governors are expected to forego house allowance from July 2019 as stipulated in a 2015 Salaries and Remuneration Commission circular. That could explain the appetite and speed with which executives allocated millions of shillings to these projects in the 2018/19 financial year. According to the commission, county governments should have built official houses for governors and assembly Speakers as they are to cease paying rent for the officers by June 30, 2019. County assemblies have approved budgets for the 2018/19 fiscal year. BEACHFRONT HOUSE Amounts set aside the construction of governor's residences vary from Sh100 million to Sh250 million. In 2014, the Kilifi County government spent Sh140 million on Governor Amason Kingi’s official residence, a quarter of the region’s development budget. According to the annual budget implementation review report for the 2013/14 financial year, Kilifi County government spent Sh102 million on water and sewerage projects and Sh39 million on education. The beachfront house, about 100 metres from the Indian Ocean, is near Kilifi Old Ferry. USE BOAT In the true fashion of a beachfront house, a tunnel connects the governor’s compound to the ocean. The tunnel makes it possible for visitors to get to the house by boat. They can anchor their vessel and use the tunnel to get to Governor Kingi’s official residence. This financial year, Tharaka-Nithi County set aside the least amount for the governor’s residence: Sh15 million. PRIVATE MATTERS The Vihiga County government set aside Sh80 million for the governor’s house to be built in Endeli village, Sabatia constituency on the outskirts of Mbale town. Governor Wilber Ottichilo is on record saying he needs an official residence to enable him conduct official matters away from his private address. “My home should remain private. I need an official residence where I can conduct public issues and meet residents and other visitors,” Dr Ottichilo said. The devolved government bought two hectares for Sh23.9 million for the residence but the county assembly has launched an investigation into the transaction. SH250 MILLION Governors Wycliffe Wangamati (Bungoma) and Sospeter Ojamoong (Busia) say they have no plans to put up official houses. Kisumu ward representatives shot down plans to buy land and build Governor Peter Anyang Nyong’o a house for Sh250 million. In Siaya, the county assembly allocated Sh93.5 million in the 2018/2019 financial year to build the Speaker’s residence while construction of the governor’s house will cost Sh40,149,299. In July, Nyamira County Assembly set aside Sh19 million for the construction of houses for the governor and the county assembly Speaker. NOT PRIORITY The Nakuru and Baringo county governments on the other hand say building houses for their governors is not a priority. A budget stalemate saw the Kericho County Assembly reject plans by Governor Paul Chepkwony’s administration to spend Sh150 million on land and houses for him and his deputy. No funds were allocated in this financial year’s budget for the governor’s residence in Bomet County. Plans by the Elgeyo-Marakwet assembly to set aside Sh100 million for the official houses of the governor and Speaker hit a snag when the county boss said he would not sign a budget that affects development spending. ALLOCATION REDUCED Kirinyaga County government set aside Sh100 million for the construction of Governor Anne Waiguru’s residence, while Embu is expected to utilise Sh75 million for the same. In Kirinyaga however, the assembly reduced the allocation to Sh50 million. Isiolo County Assembly approved Sh60 million for the governor’s house. Nairobi set aside Sh130 million for the Speaker’s residence, Uasin Gishu (Sh80 million) while Garissa will use Sh75 million. FIRST OCCUPANT Kilifi County, which has been in the limelight, set aside Sh214 million for the deputy governor’s house. The county government will also use Sh200 million in the construction of the Speaker’s residence. Two palatial homes valued at Sh110 million will be constructed for Isiolo Governor Mohammed Kuti and the Speaker, budget estimates for the 2018/19 financial year show. Governor Kiraitu Murungi of Meru could be the first occupant of the official residence of the devolved government. CRITICAL SERVICES The county government has set aside Sh40 million for the construction of the governor’s house, as indicated in its revised annual development plan for the 2017/18 financial year. The same amount will go into building the assembly Speaker’s house. The residence for the deputy governor will cost Sh30 million. In 2015, the Commission for Revenue Allocation stopped the construction craze in a bid to free up money for health, education, agriculture, water and other critical services. The commission advised county governments to spend on non-core projects from this year.   Kenyan politicians are known for living a high end life that many only dream of.