For the second season in a row, Kariobangi Sharks have produced the top scorer in the SportPesa Premier League despite the club failing to attain its pre-season target of finishing among the top five. Erick Kapaito, who scored against Chemelil Sugar on Sunday to take his season’s tally to 16 goals, becomes the second player from Kariobangi Sharks to win the Golden Boot after Masoud Juma who was the league’s top scorer last season with 17 goals. Rwandan Jacques Tuyisenge, who was the other hopeful for the award, failed to score in Gor Mahia’s 1-0 loss to Tusker at the weekend, and finished second on 15 goals. By finishing as the league’s top scorer, the 27-year-old Kapaito will take home Sh50,000 cash prize at the SportPesa Premier League awards gala which will be held later this month in Nairobi. “It feels good, although I was never sure about getting it. First of all I thank God for favouring me with good health and an injury-free season, and my team mates for their support throughout the season. Without them I wouldn’t have achieved this. I also appreciate my coach. His guidance throughout the season helped me stay focused and determined,” Kapaito told Nation Sport on Sunday. Kapaito has been a key figure for Kariobangi Sharks, especially in the second leg of the season, earning himself a maiden call-up to the national team this year. Meanwhile, Nakumatt will be subjected to a two-leg promotion/relegation play-off battle later this month to confirm their status in the SportPesa Premier League. The retailers lost 2-0 to Vihiga United at the weekend, thereby finishing in the league’s third last position with 37 points from 34 matches. They will now have to play either Nairobi Stima or Ushuru in the two-leg playoff to determine whether they will remain in the top flight or slump into the lower tier. “It is a huge relief to the team that we are not going for the play-offs. We had a lot of challenges this season and we have also learnt a lot too,” said Posta Rangers coach Sammy Pamzo Omollo, whose barren draw against Kakamega Homeboyz saved them from the dreaded play-offs. Thika United and Wazito finished in the bottom two positions in the league and were relegated, having lost their last matches of the season to Bandari and Sony Sugar respectively. TOP SCORERS 16 goals: Eric Kapaito (Kariobangi Sharks) 15 goals: Jacques Tuyisege (Gor Mahia) 15: Elvis Rupia (Nzoia Sugar) 14: Mike Madoya (Zoo Kericho) 14: Cliff Nyakeya (Mathare United)   He did not rule out working again with the club.