Actress Sarah Hassan is in no rush to have babies, even after being married for close to two years now. The actress who made her name in the "Tahidi High" show on Citizen TV a few years back, got married to Martin Dale on February 25, last year. It has been 20 months since then but the 30-year-old is yet to have a child, something that many of her fans have been asking about online. However, while addressing the issue recently, Sarah said she wants to have babies but at a time she and her husband will feel its right to do so. “I do want to have children. It’s something we have discussed but I won’t say how many or when. I believe when the time is right it will happen,” she was quoted.    Alicia gives Swizz keys to super car RNB star Alicia Keys surprised her husband, veteran music producer Swizz Beatz, with an Aston Martin super car worth Sh15.1 million during his 40th birthday. Alicia, who has been married to the producer for eight years, pulled the surprise of its kind by blind folding Swizz Beats and making him believe she was taking him out for a date at a secret restaurant only to lead him to the streets where the green 2019 model super-car had been parked. “I thought we were going to a secret restaurant, a ninja restaurant. My wife is always up to something,” Swizz Beats was quoted later. Fellow RNB singer Usher Raymond, and Beyoncé and her rapper husband Jay Z were on hand to spice up the surprise. Swizz Beats married Alicia in 2010, the same year he finalised his divorce to singer Mashonda after they had been married for six years. This led to rumours that Alicia was the cause of the divorce but the three have since worked out their differences, and hang out a lot as they raise their three kids who share Swizz Beats as the father.    Jones and Octo collabo possible Following his win of the AFRIMMA Awards three weeks ago, rapper Khaligraph Jones is now ready for a collabo with his long-time nemesis Octopizzo. Khaligraph won The Best Rap Act category in the Africa Muzik Magazine Awards & Music Festivals beating big stars in the likes of Nasty C (South Africa), Sarkodie (Ghana) among others. With the big win being his first international award, Khaligraph notes that his perception about hip hop music has changed and now he has no problem doing a feature with Octopizzo, if the latter so wishes. Khaligraph says he is just a phone call away if Octopizzo feels he is ready for a collabo. “If you had asked me that question a month ago, I would have had a different answer. But right now, since winning AFRIMMA, my job is to support the hip hop culture. So if he is ready for a collabo, let him call me, come to studio and let’s have a session,” Khaligraph noted. The two have been at loggerheads for over a decade, since the days they both started out as underground rappers before bursting into fame.    ‘Moral police’ Mutua given second term Kenya Film Classification Board (KFCB) directors have renewed Ezekiel Mutua’s term as its Chief Executive Officer (CEO) for three more years. Mutua was first appointed KFCB Chairman on October 26, 2015 and his tenure was set to end this Friday. During his first term, Mutua has rubbed many off the wrong way in the media industry as well as the film fraternity. Decisions by the board have many at time been viewed by some as excessive. Speaking of his term's renewal during a radio interview, Kenya’s self-styled Chief Moral Policeman, bragged of successes in his first term as KFCB boss. According to him, what he was able to achieve in the last three years was the sole reason why the board decided to extend his term. “When I was first appointed, the board gave me two mandates that I have achieved very well. One was to raise the profile of the board, which I have done by over 99 per cent. “When I came to KFCB no one knew about it, even government agencies were contradicting our mandate. So (secondly) I made sure I set up structures,” Mutua stated. In his second term, Mutua has promised to work on strategic connections to ensure cinema-going in Kenya witnesses growth.   The song is highly moving and inspirational