President Uhuru Kenyatta Saturday toured Kilgoris Constituency for a wedding ceremony of a relative of Narok Governor Samuel Tunai. The head of State was accompanied by a handful of plain-clothed security officers. Daniel Kijabe Tunai and his spouse Naserian Ketuiyo exchanged their wedding vows in the ceremony held in Olesentu village in Trans Mara West Sub-County. Governor Tunai, who is the cousin of the groom, lauded the President for honouring the invitation to attend the ceremony. Speaking at the event, President Kenyatta called for unity among politicians in the country. UNITY FOR DEVELOPMENT He said political leaders should be on the forefront in uniting the country for the sake of development. “I am very happy today seeing political leaders who competed in last election seated together. That is what good leadership is all about. Politics is all about competition which does not mean enmity,” he said. He said there is time for competition and time for development and called on all leaders to now focus on moving the country forward. This was in apparent reference to Governor Tunai and Interior Chief Administrative Secretary Patrick Ntutu who competed against each other for governorship seat in the last general election. The President also congratulated the newlyweds and wished them well in their marriage. Others present during at the event included Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko, Energy CS Charles Keter and Bomet Governor Joyce Laboso. Bomet Senator Christopher Lang'at, MPs Korei Lemein (Narok South), Gideon Konchellah (Kilgoris) and Lemanken Aramat (Narok East) were also present. INTEGRATION President Kenyatta, who was welcomed by Kuria dancers to the event, said it is encouraging to see Kenyans from various communities integrate for the sake of peace. "We want unity for development in this country now than never before. It is through peace that people get meaningful development. Let us serve the people first," he said. He asked elected leaders to support the Big Four Agenda. SURRENDER ARMS The head of State also ask people living in the volatile areas of Trans Mara to embrace peace and surrender illegal arms. "I do not want to hear issues of insecurity here again. Live together as brothers for you to realise development," he said. Mr Tunai lauded the Jubilee leadership for the infrastructural developments in the county. "For the first time since independence we are having about five newly tarmacked roads in Narok courtesy of your admiration,” Mr Tunai told the President. The upgrading of Narok-Sekenani, Kilgoris-Bomet, Ololung'a-Olmekenyu and Kisiriri-Nakuru roads is underway.  