Where is the noble woman? The fabric that holds our society has been grievously wounded. The highlights are there for all to see and hear, all our news outlets are awash with the news on a daily basis; stories so painful, images so gruesome, lurid tales, some tear-jerking, others gut-wrenching but most simply bring tears of sadness, pain and disbelief to all of us. Young girls who are shamelessly throwing themselves at old men, offering their young bodies as sex objects in exchange for monetary favours and attendant “good” life, are left in the family way nursing babies while juggling school/college with motherhood roles they are ill-prepared for. Cases abound of these young girls getting battered, maimed; and in extreme circumstances killed as they desperately seek upkeep. The men who pursue these young girls into their hostels, homes and other social places are on the other hand the worst kind of predators. They dangle their fat filthy wallets and bank accounts, lying to these young girls about love and a good life only to expose them to all manner of diseases and/or dangers. MORALITY Meanwhile, the noble women are quiet; they ‘see no evil’; ‘hear no evil’; and ‘speak no evil’. Or maybe they are no more. Maybe the voices of the remnant have been swamped by that of the majority that long exchanged their calling for the gain the world offers to those who walk according to its will, the short term gain and vanity that hides the ultimate pain that dereliction of duty and responsibility must ultimately bring. Where are you noble women? Speak up, raise your voices, and let our young, vulnerable and malleable girls and teenagers hear your voices. Start teaching them when they are young, return and start again that which nobility placed upon you. Start speaking again, speak into their hearts and souls, teach them to value their bodies, to love themselves, to obey their parents, to practice fidelity. Teach them the enduring legacy of hard work and the tested reality of patience, teach them to heed the voice of God to wait upon the providence of the creator. GUIDANCE Raise your voices, speak to young boys in their adolescence, speak to them when in their teens, speak to them as young adults and keep not silent when they are adults and walking their paths. Teach them to respect young girls, let them understand that these young girls represent their young sisters, their daughters, their mothers and even their wives; that in violating these girls they violate those who gave them life. The society is in deep distress, the laws they banked on have failed them, the leaders they elected as their chief protectors have in large part become their chief predators, the good life they worked so hard to offer to their children has become the attraction conduit for luring these youths. Where are the noble women? It’s time for you to take back the mantle and show us the way. Will you do it? Dr Lorna Mumelo is a Commissioner with the Parliamentary Service Commissioner representing the public.  