The Employment and Labour Relations Court has awarded a former Fly540 manager Sh9 million in damages for wrongful dismissal.Ms Jacqueline Arkle was the airline’s marketing manager for East Africa from 2008 but was dismissed in September 2011 soon after being made the company’s country manager in Uganda.She accused the firm of unlawfully terminating her services, intimidation and harassment, adding that she was denied an opportunity to defend herself. REPUTATIONMs Arkle said in effecting her dismissal, the airline placed an advertisement in a regional daily paper and on its website for a month.She said doing so tarnished her professional reputation and caused her severe distress.Justice Maureen Onyango awarded her Sh5 million as damages for defamation, saying the publication of the advertisement effectively destroyed Ms Arkle’s career in the highly sensitive and regulated aviation industry. CONTRACTUALThe judge also awarded her Sh3.8 million, a salary of 10 months. The court said it took into account Ms Arkle’s length of service as well as the airline’s “callous” conduct in effecting the dismissal.On unlawful surcharge on account of air tickets Ms Arkle reportedly gave a Uganda rugby team, the judge awarded her Sh513,500, totalling the compensation to Sh9.3 million.Ms Arkle said after her transfer to Uganda, the company’s regional sales declined owing to poor maintenance of planes, poor customer care and a number of other factors “that were beyond my control”. Through her lawyer Cathy Mputhia, she told the court that it was not part of her contractual duties to oversee strategic and overall management of the airline and that she was never issued a performance benchmark. MANAGEMENTThe former Fly540 manager said her dismissal was malicious and unfair. She added that her former employer abandoned her and her family in Uganda and failed to pay her relocation allowance back to Kenya. However, the airline said Ms Arkle’s suit did not disclose any reasonable cause of action as she voluntarily signed for her terminal dues in full, thus discharging the company from liability.Fly549 accused her of intentionally and dishonestly concealing and altering the September 2, 2011 letter of termination with the purpose of misleading the court. NEGLIGENT“She was negligent and was the cause of poor performance in the airline’s Uganda branch,” Fly540 said. The company said as a result of Ms Arkle’s poor performance, the airline undertook an internal audit which unearthed “an unacceptable state of affairs of the business” and that she was invited to Nairobi for a discussion.“We accorded her a fair hearing at the meeting where she actively participated in deliberations about her poor performance. Her services were terminated in accordance with the contract of employment and the law,” the company added. OPPORTUNITYFly540 told the court that the claimant was advised through a June 26, 2011 email that if the sales did not improve, her contract would be terminated. But justice Onyango overruled the airline’s argument.“Assuming the claimant’s job was as wide as claimed, and if it is true that she performed poorly, the question remains whether her failures were pointed out to her and whether she was given an opportunity to improve,” the judge said.She added that Ms Arkle held a senior position “and one would have expected that if Fly540 was that much concerned about her performance, she would have been put on a clear and definite performance improvement programme.”  