The trial of 35 people linked to the loss of Sh226.9 million loss at the National Youth Service (NYS) resumes Wednesday morning. The trial, which was to start on Monday was adjourned to Wednesday after defence lawyers said they had not been served with all witness statements and there were new charges which they needed to look at. Those facing charges include former Youth and Gender Principal Secretary Lilian Omollo who faces among other charges, 12 counts of abuse of office and conspiracy to commit an economic crime. Other charges are wilful failure to comply with applicable procedures and guidelines relating to management of public funds, neglect of official duties and fraudulently making payments. FRESH CHARGES The prosecution also brought in new charges that include breach of trust, making documents without authority, uttering false documents, false accounting, fraudulent acquisition of public property, dealing with suspect property and money laundering. Five members of the Ngirita family are also in court facing charges of conspiracy to commit a corruption offence, fraudulent acquisition of public property and money laundering. The prosecution alleges that the family made millions of shillings “supplying air” to the NYS. They include the mother Ms Lucy Wambui Ngirita, her daughters Anne Wanjiku Wambere and Phylis Njeri, son Jeremiah Gichini and his wife Catherine Wanjiku Mwai. Other accused persons are former NYS Director-General Richard Ndubai, who is facing one count abuse of office and one count of conspiracy to commit corruption. 8 FREED On Monday, the prosecution withdrew charges against eight accused persons despite protestations from their lawyers who wanted them acquitted under section 210 of the civil procedure code and not section 87(a) which means they can still be arrested. In his opening remarks, Assistant Director of Public Prosecutions Gitonga Riungu told the chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti that, “the case is against amongst obscure but “ruthless fly-by night briefcase companies or business entities which swooped away a massive Sh231,942,758 million being just a tip of the Sh8 billion which was siphoned from the National Youth Service coffers for goods not delivered.” They allegedly did so with the assistance of the former public officers.   So far, some 51 suspects have been charged with the loss of money.