Campaigns for the Migori Senate by-election ended last evening with ODM leader Raila Odinga criticising those involved in the murder of young women. But the rallies ended on a chaotic note in some places as supporters of rival candidates clashed. In Kehancha, ODM officials had to cancel a rally they had organised for their candidate Ochillo Ayacko after youth chanting opposing slogans threatened to disrupt it. Although not officially part of the programme publicised by the party, local officials had already set up a public address system at Kehancha Cereals Grounds when supporters of Mr Ayacko (ODM) and those of Mr Eddy Oketch (FPK) clashed. Trouble began when a famous businessman in Kehancha town, identified only as Mnati, led rowdy youths in the plan to disrupt the rally as people were gathering ahead of Mr Odinga’s arrival. The youths claimed the area is Mr Oketch’s stronghold. SHARON The party later clarified the rally was not officially planned and the organisation had been largely the work of local ODM enthusiasts. Mr Odinga had not confirmed attending. Earlier, Mr Odinga had waded into a debate on the wave of murders across the country involving young women, saying those responsible must be made to face the law. In one incident, Migori Governor Okoth Obado is a suspect in the murder of his girlfriend Sharon Otieno, who was pregnant with his child. He is expected in court on Monday. “We all know what happened here pertaining to the heinous murder of the 26-year-old girl and her infant,” Mr Odinga said. “The guilty must be made to pay for their sins. We cannot have such criminals free in the country." REVIEW On referendum, Mr Odinga clarified that the Building Bridges Task Force will decide whether or not Kenyans will have one. “I did not say it is a must that Kenyans must vote to change the laws. The team will collect views from Kenyans before we adopt their recommendations,” he added. “My interest and that of President Uhuru Kenyatta is to unify the country. If Kenyans will support the law review, then we will have a plebiscite,” he said. ODM national chairman John Mbadi and MPs Aduma K’Owuor (Nyakach), Junet Mohammed (Suna East) and Peter Masara (Suna West) told Deputy President William Ruto “never to compare himself to Mr Odinga”. “Between Mr Ruto and Mr Odinga, who looks like a con man?” Mr Mbadi asked. INJURED On Thursday, youths believed to be allied to Mr Oketch clashed with Mr Ayacko’s supporters at Mabera town, moments before Mr Odinga and his team landed. A Standard newspaper photojournalist, Mr Kingson Kingwara, was injured and his camera destroyed in the ensuing melee. "Some goons approached me and asked me to give them my SD card, which I declined. They then landed on me with blows," Mr Kingwara, who was recuperating at Isibania Sub-County Hospital, recalled. Mr Ayacko and Mr Oketch — the front runners in the race — are battling for the Kuria votes, which are expected to be the swing votes in the race.   Oketch, 28, is hoping to capitalise on his popularity among the youthful voters.