A tattoo is a true poetic creation, and is always more than meets the eye. As a tattoo is grounded on living skin, so its essence emotes a poignancy unique to the mortal human condition. - V. Vale and Andrea Juno  Henry Ndege, 30, holds a tattoo gun carefully as he delicately inks a pattern onto his client’s hand. The widely known tattoo artist plies his trade at Masters Plaza in Nakuru, in a room with bright lights, and paintings and antiques from all over the world lining its walls.  Tell me about yourself. I am the founder and owner of Captain Lithium’s Tattoo Parlour. I was passionate about art from a very young age, which drove me to study Fine Arts and Design at Mwangaza College. I am the last child in a family of 10 children. My late dad was an architect and my mother was a chef and an artist. My brother is a painter and a Fine Arts teacher, so basically, art runs in my family.   How did you become a well-known tattoo artist? After college in 2007, I relocated to Mombasa and started selling my paintings around Fort Jesus. I was invited to an arts exhibition organised by the Ministry of Arts and Culture and I met an Italian man who had many tattoos. I was fascinated and I approached him, wanting to learn about tattoos. After a lot of practice, I did my first tattoo on a client – a heart shape and initials of a name – and charged Sh2,000. After that, I mainly did house calls as I did not have a tattoo parlour to work in.  How did you grow your clientele? I strive to learn everything there is about tattoos, as it requires passion. Inking permanent images and patterns on someone’s skin is not as easy as it appears. I used to operate between Mombasa and Nakuru once I had perfected my ability and the satisfaction I got from the clients in Mombasa gave me confidence to share my work with my friends. I have more clients now; many of them I got through referrals while others contacted me after seeing social media posts.   How did you build your name in Nakuru? I relocated permanently to Nakuru in 2015. I had saved Sh300,000 from sale of my paintings, which I used to set up my first tattoo parlour. It was a partnership business. A quality tattoo demands for imperative attention to detail, good eye-to-hand coordination and patience. I also do tattoo removal, scar cover-up and piercings. I am looking forward to expanding my business and even becoming the leading distributor of tattoo equipment in Kenya.  What are some of the challenges you have faced? I faced serious backlash from people associating tattoos to Satanism. And when I started out, some clients complained that my charges were high but they are myths and misconceptions about tattooing are still major challenge but I try to clarify any misunderstandings people have about tattoos.   What have you achieved so far? In August 2018, I felt the need of going solo and that is how I founded Captain Lithium’s Parlour. I have clients all over East Africa – I have also done graffiti on vehicles in Nakuru and in Uganda. The most expensive tattoo I have ever done was one that I charged Sh78,000 for; it took me 10 hours to complete. I am happy that I make enough money to comfortably pay my bills and support my family. This is my eleventh year as a tattoo artist and I still receive dozens of orders every month from clients who want tattoos. I also have trained more than 30 tattoo artists and some of them have established their own tattoo shops in various parts of the country.  Where do you get the tattoos supplies? I import them from China. I believe in giving my clients the best.   Do you feel Tattoo business is a male dominated industry? It is a bit gender-biased, but there are some women I have trained and they are doing so well and their clientele base is growing. Society also has this perception that women cannot do some jobs that men do. Compared to early years, the tattoo business is now in its golden years, and both men and women can do it well.  Any advice to young people. Don’t complain about unemployment; use your talent, exploit it, research a lot and create a job for yourself. If you feel like there’s something out there that you’re supposed to be doing and you have a passion for it, then stop wishing and just do it. ***Do you have feedback on this story? Please email lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com   Agnes Nyaboke, 26, is a make-up artist based in Nakuru.