Long ago, the people of the United States of America appropriated the names “America” and “Americans” for themselves to the exclusion of other people who inhabit the continent that comprises North and South America, otherwise known as the Americas. When the media use the name “America”, we automatically know they mean the United States of America — not Canada, Mexico, Guatemala or any of the other 18 countries in North America; nor Brazil, Argentina, Peru or any of the other nine states in South America. When they talk of “Americans”, we automatically know they are referring to the citizens of the US — not of the other countries in the supercontinent. Is a similar monopolisation of names taking place in Kenya with the help of the media? EXCLUSIVE USE Mark Muibo complains that the Kalenjin have appropriated the name “Rift Valley” for their exclusive use. They’ve done this, apparently, with the help of the media, which routinely use the term “Rift Valley MPs” and “Rift Valley leaders” to mean only Kalenjin MPs and leaders, to the exclusion of other MPs and leaders from other ethnic communities in the region. When MPs from the region are non-Kalenjin, the media specifies their ethnic origin, instead of calling them “Rift Valley MPs”. Example: “Four Members of Parliament from the Maa community have warned against politicising the ongoing Mau forest evictions….” (Daily Nation, July 25, 2018: “MPs warn against politicising Mau forest evictions.”) The media have thus conditioned readers to believe “Rift Valley MPs” or “Rift Valley leaders” are Kalenjin, not anyone else. Consider the following examples from recent Nation stories: TOUGH BATTLE “Rift Valley MPs have promised a tough battle to protect Deputy President William Ruto’s interests in the Jubilee Party in the wake of claims of indifferent treatment by President Uhuru Kenyatta following his handshake....” “The Rift Valley MPs have blamed Mr Tobiko of targeting innocent and genuine land owners from the Mau complex….” “Rift Valley MPs reject Aden Duale bid to lock out Sarah Serem.” “Rift Valley leaders will soon convene a mega rally at the historic Kapkatet grounds in Kericho County to discuss the unresolved mystery of Mau settlements.” CENSURE MOTION “In March, Rift Valley MPs kicked up an unsuccessful ruckus to oust Health CS Sicily Kariuki through a censure motion because she had sent packing Kenyatta Hospital CEO Lilly Koros.” Notice how easy it would have been to avoid the monopolisation of “Rift Valley” by simply inserting the words “a section of” before “Rift Valley”. The media sometimes do this. Example: “Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina was grilled on Monday on alleged incitement, amid calls by a section of Rift Valley leaders for Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet to order his arrest” (Daily Nation, October 1, 2018: “Senator Ole Kina points finger at opponents of Mau evictions.”) The monopolisation of “Rift Valley” defies reality. The Rift Valley is inhabited by other ethnic groups apart from the Kalenjin. They include the Maasai, Samburu, Turkana, Bukusu and Kikuyu. The largest of the eight provinces abolished with the implementation of the 2010 Constitution, it extends from Turkana and West Pokot in the north to Narok and Kajiado in the south, and Baringo and Nakuru in the centre to Samburu and Laikipia in the east. ECONOMIC DOMINANCE “Rift Valley” is still used to refer to this sprawling area that now comprises 14 far-flung counties and 76 constituencies. But with the help of the media, the Kalenjin seem, as Mr Muibo suggests, to have appropriated the name to themselves. Readers now hardly think “Rift Valley MPs” and “Rift Valley leaders” could be non-Kalenjin. Never mind, for example, the Maasai and Samburu communities have 20 elected MPs in the Rift Valley. The monopolisation of “America” and “Americans” was also the result of the social, cultural and economic dominance of the US. Could that also be the case with the appropriation of the Rift Valley by the Kalenjin? Send your complaints to publiceditor@ke.nationmedia.com. Call or text 0721 989 264  