For Ms Freda Shibonje, a nurse, it was a dream come true when in a fleeting moment she found herself holding hands with President Uhuru Kenyatta at Kakamega State lodge on Saturday after Mashujaa Day celebrations. Her encounter with Mr Kenyatta, then a newborn at Aga Khan Hospital, was 57 year ago. MAMA NGINA Ms Shibonje was then working at the hospital’s maternity wing when President Kenyatta’s mother Ngina Kenyatta arrived at the hospital to deliver. The former First Lady gave birth to Mr Kenyatta and Ms Shibonje was the nurse who attended to them at the ward. That was to be her last time to meet Mr Kenyatta, although memories of the day she held the baby and attended to his mother have lingered on. Now aged 80 years, she has been looking forward to meet the President. When she was ushered in to meet President Kenyatta on Saturday after attending Mashujaa Day at Bukhungu stadium, Ms Shibonje was overcome with emotion and disbelief as she struggled to find words to tell him. THE MEETING Finally, she found her voice: “My son, I saw you last when you were a newborn. I have been longing for this moment; to meet you and shake your hand. I’m so honoured my son,” said Ms Shibonje. They held hands and stared at each as memories of the day Ms Shibonje attended to the President’s mother flooded back into her mind. Ms Shibonje, who was accompanied by her daughter Janet Mukoshi met President Kenyatta after the celebrations. “I was so excited when he agreed to meet me after the luncheon at State lodge. We spoke for close to 10 minutes before he extended an invitation for me to visit State House, Nairobi,” said Ms Shibonje. She took photos with President Kenyatta and First Lady Margaret Kenyatta. She also got an opportunity for a photo session with Deputy President William Ruto and his wife Rachel. VIP PATIENT Ms Shibonje recalls the events in 1961 as if they happened yesterday — not a mean feat for an 80-year-old. That morning, Ms Shibonje, who had joined the hospital in December 1960, was going about her duties at the maternity wing when a VIP patient arrived. She recognised the patient as Mama Ngina Kenyatta. “I was happy for the mother since we had come a long way from the time we started attending to her while expecting the baby. When the moment came for her to deliver, I couldn’t wait to welcome her baby,” Ms Shibonje said during an interview at her home in Ikonyero village, Kakamega County. State House Spokesperson Kanze Dena confirmed that Ms Shibonje has been invited to meet the President at State House, Nairobi, at a date to be communicated.   Why midwife was overcome by emotion and joy.