Gor Mahia coach Dylan Kerr has sent an early warning to English Premier League (EPL) outfit Everton ahead of their much-awaited friendly slated for November 6 at Goodison Park. Kerr has been in the United Kingdom since Wednesday last week on a fact-finding mission in build up to the friendly. He attended the Everton versus Crystal Palace match at Goodison Park on Sunday that ended 2-0 in the hosts’ favour and the Englishman says he has noted his opponent’s weaknesses and strengths. “They are very organized and disciplined, they work hard not to concede and patiently build up their goals unlike us who go all out from the word go aiming to score,” Kerr told Nation Sport on Monday from his base in the UK. He added: “It was good experience for me to watch them play thanks to SportPesa, that’s part of my job and they must be careful when we meet because we equally have a good team with players able to match them.” Gor resume preparations for the trip tomorrow under the watchful eyes of assistant coach Zedekiah “Zico” Otieno and goalkeeper trainer Willis Ochieng'. “I’m confident with my technical bench, we will work on speed of play and agility when they are back in training, Zico knows how we do it, he knows the tempo I need so that is sorted,” outlined Kerr, who led K’Ogalo to their 17th SportPesa Premier League (SPL) title. He has challenged his players to grab the once in a lifetime opportunity and exhibit their prime instincts. Gor, who earned a chance to play Everton after emerging the winner of the second edition of the SportPesa Super Cup held between June 3 and 10 in Nakuru, depart for UK on November 2. “I just want my players to enjoy the experience of playing a team in the EPL, it’s going to be cold, wet and probably windy but it’s a dream and absolute pleasure playing here,” he concluded. The 51-year-old was at K-Com Stadium on Saturday to watch the one-all draw pitting Hull City and Preston North End in the English championship. He further revealed that he will attend a 15-hour Progressive Development coaching course in Edinburg, Scotland on October 28 and 29 that's a requirement for Uefa A coaching license renewal after three years. Kerr's license is set to expire on December 31.   The 23-year-old completed a two-year deal with the league champions.