Music is a language that doesn’t speak in particular words. It speaks in emotions, and if it’s in the bones, it’s in the bones.” Keith Richards.  Boniface Kinya, 27, believes that he was born to sing. “Ever since I was in primary school, I loved singing and I participated in different activities that involved music. It has been all I ever wanted to do; it is in my bones.” Music runs in the family-- his father was a Taarab singer while his elder sister, Mary Gitau, popularly known as Mimma Shaffie, is famed for her Karaoke gigs which she hosts in Nakuru and Nairobi. Boniface goes by the stage name Hush BK, and has become a household name in Nakuru’s entertainment scene. He is best known for the hit song “Pasta Mjanja” released in 2015 and recorded by Grandpa Records. In the song, Boniface castigates two-faced philandering preachers with a notoriety for faking miracles, peddling lies and taking advantage of gullible worshippers. Following the successful debut of his music career, the budding artiste has gone ahead to release 10 more tracks in his album “Future.” He will be launching the album on October 19 at Club 64 in Nakuru. EARLY DAYS Boniface was born in Mpeketoni in Lamu county where he spent his childhood and teen years before his family relocated to Nakuru after he completed high school. Life in Lamu was not easy and Boniface says that it took grit to stay on course in the face of my temptations. “I was surrounded by drugs and cheeky behaviour from my peers. I had to be deliberate about what I wanted in life. I believe that is the reason I am where I am today and doing what I love.” After high school, Boniface enrolled for college at the National Talent Youth Academy. This was a natural path for him to take given that he had served as chairman of music and drama club for two years while in high school. Later on in 2012, he joined Nakuru Player Theatre solely to network with other artistes as he grew more focused in his music. “I view music as an explosive expression of humanity. It is healing, something that touches us all. something we are all touched by. I think everyone loves music, regardless of their culture or where they are from.” INCOME In addition to the satisfaction of following his passion, Boniface earns a decent income from his brand through performance gigs. He has had an opportunity to share the stage with big shots in the entertainment industry such as Professor Hammo from the Churchill show, Dj Shitti and TPF star Ng’ang’alito.   His popularity has opened doors for emcee jobs that have seen him feature in prominent events in Nakuru including like "Guinness made of black" parties, "Miss Tourism 2016" and several stand-up comedy shows. “Nakuru is a rapidly growing town with quite a number of clubs. However, most of these new clubs are always hesitant to play local music. Fortunately for me, my fans really appreciate the kind of music I do and so I find it being played a lot in the local clubs.” CUTTHROAT COMPETITION Despite the many milestones reached, Boniface admits that things are not all rosy as it is. The entertainment industry has cutthroat competition that requires spontaneous creativity and rapport with fans to keep them interested in what the artiste has to offer. Boniface has managed to do exactly that and it has paid off seeing that in a good month, he earns close to Sh80,000 from his music. “My music career has grown with time. I still remember my first gig at a club called Coco Savannah in Nakuru, where I made a measly sh500. Things are definitely much better now.” Boniface has a day job as an employee at the Menengai Oil Company, a manufacturing company based in Nakuru county. The job gives him financial stability as he continues to pursue his dreams. His knack for business led him to create branded merchandise that include t-shirts, hoodies and caps and these are often purchased fans during his performance gigs. Boniface’s mother has been his greatest cheerleader, motivating him to keep going after his dreams. He draws inspiration form Ugandan singer, Jose Chameleon whom he acknowledges a s a force to reckon with in the music industry. In future, Boniface hopes to start a Talent academy and recording studio that will nurture young upcoming artistes. Asked how he came up with his stage name Hush Bk, Boniface explained that “hush” means silent and his endeavour is to do many things in silence and let his success speak for him.   Amos Njoroge has helped start several community initiatives in Nakuru