Champions Kenya Commercial Bank and Impala Saracens have unleashed a set of new half-backs ahead of Saturday's Impala Floodlit rugby tournament final. The bankers have named teenagers Charles Asati (fly-half) and Brian Osumba (scrum-half) to start against Impala Saracens, who have brought on Xavier Kipng’etich and Mark Kwemoi respectively. Asati, who was instrumental to KCB's charge when he came in as a substitute to spur his team to victory against Homeboyz in the semis, will replace Shaban Ahmed who moves to the bench while Osumba comes in for Marlin Mukolwe. KCB, who have also brought in Jacob Ojee for Stafford Abeka, will also be without their Kenya Simbas forwards Andrew Amonde, Martin Owillah and utility back Darwin Mukidza. Brian Nyikuli returns to replace Amonde while Mannaseh Oduor comes in for Owillah. Kipng’etich and Kwemoi replaces Samson Onsumu and Samuel Oliech, who are with Kenya Simbas’ side for the Rugby World Cup Repechage qualifier. Joel Omwer, who played from number eight in the semi-final for Impala, now starts at blind-side with Steve Shammah taking his place. Tyson Okoth will operate at open-side with Elvins Oroko, who started in the semi-finals, missing out completely. Soita Wekesa replaces Edgar Obino at tight-head prop. “We are racing against what we have to know in our new structures and not against our opponents,” said KCB coach Curtis Olago. “We are well prepared and the boys are out to give their best.” Impala Saracens director of rugby Fred Ollows said the changes are tactical with some of their players going out for international assignment. "There won’t be much difference for the two teams, who have learnt to live without the missing players," said Ollows. “We expect KCB to let loose their big forwards in with good offloads in their route one assault but we shall deal with them.” It’s the fourth time the bankers and the Sarries are meeting in the final, with the past two finals having been a close affair, with the two sides exchanging wins. The bankers boost of 2-1 record from the previous three meetings. In 2015, KCB won 26-14 but would relinquish the title in 2016, losing to the Sarries 33-22. The bankers reclaimed the title last year, beating Impala 18-17 in the final. The bankers, who are chasing their seventh Floodlit title, have now reached the final for the past five editions, losing only once against Impala in 2016. Impala have won the diadem seven times. Last Saturday, a classy KCB, fresh from their training tour of South Africa, ran in four tries, two penalties and four conversions to outclass highly-rated Homeboyz 34-10 while Impala weathered a late charge from Strathmore Leos to triumph 20-18 in the semi-finals. KCB 1. Oscar Sorano 2. George Asin 3. Nelson Nyandat 4. Mannaseh Oduor 5. Francis Mwita 6. Brian Nyikuli 7. Felix Ojoo 8. Rocky Aguko 9. Samuel Asati 10. Stephen Osumba 11. Isaac Njoroge 12. Brian Omondi 13. Vincent Onyala 14. Jacob Ojee 15. Elphas Otieno Substitutes: 16. Griffin Musila 17. George Gichure 18. Jerry Olola 19. Ian Indimuli 20. Elly Mukaizi 21. Michael Wanjala 22. Shaban Ahmed 23. Esau Otieno Onsomu, X, Oliech Impala Saracens 1. Wekesa Soita 2. Joshua Matasi 3. Anthony Orege 4. Davis Makori 5. Shem Joseph 6. Joel Omer (C) 7. Tyson Okoth 8. Steve Shammah 9. Xavier Bett 10. Mark Kwemoi 11. Billy Omondi 12. Paul Mutsami 13. Anthony Nyandigisi 14. Quinto Ongo 15. Richard Sidindi Substitutes: 16. Daniel Ndome 17. Edgar Obino 18. Rainer Omondi 19. Erick Kerre 20. Bernard Rotich 21. George Okowa 22. Derrick Mayar 23. Kelvin Ronnoh   Strathmore staged a late surge through tries from Albert Obura and Alex Maina.