County governments have largely abused the liberty for foreign travels, which they have turned into channels for outings and siphoning public money without commensurate benefit to the taxpayers. This is the reason why it is imperative to impose controls on their travels and ensure only relevant and critical assignments are approved. Stiff rules are paramount to create order in the counties. This is the basis upon which the Devolution ministry has issued rules to guide foreign travels by county officials, stipulating that only those that are absolutely necessary would be sanctioned. Any travel must be justified. And for every trip, the county delegations, be they Members of County Assembly, executives or other officers, must submit reports, which in turn have to demonstrate learning that benefit the residents. MISUSE But this has elicited stiff opposition from the Council of Governors, which considers it restrictive and punitive. Other than the argument that Devolution ministry has no direct control over the counties, the substance of the rules are justified. Counties have exhibited singular inability to control themselves. The officials are notorious for misuse of public finances through devious trips that add no value. Paradoxically, counties are perennially crying over budgetary constraints, complaining of inadequate and delayed disbursement of funds. Many projects are stalled while services are appalling due to lack of funds. Yet cash for travels are promptly obtainable. BUDGET Generally, the country is going through hard economic times. Just last month, Parliament was compelled to cut budgets. National government itself has had to contend with austerity measures. That must extend to all other levels, including the counties, which in themselves are unable to generate own incomes to become self-sustaining. In effect, the row between governors and the ministry over new travel rules is uncalled for. Administrative questions of who should issue instructions to counties is a small matter that can be easily resolved. But the bottom line is that rules are required to rein in the counties and force them to maintain financial discipline.  