The healthcare financing system is the backbone of health services. A functional model should have a strategy to raise enough funds and plan to distribute the proceeds to increase the people’s access to quality service at all stages of primary, secondary and tertiary healthcare. It should also monitor the use of these resources efficiently. Kenya uses three healthcare financing strategies. With the most common of them, “out of pocket”, one goes to a hospital and pays cash for health services consumed or pays premiums to an insurance scheme and secures a medical cover. FUNDING Second, the government allocates money every year in the national Budget to finance healthcare. Third, donors put in finances, especially to tackle high-burden diseases such as malaria and HIV. But these three happen to be the basic strategies for funding healthcare globally. Some countries have tried out new methods. For instance, in 2010, during the reign of President Barack Obama, the United States set up an ambitious healthcare programme. Popularly known as “Obamacare”, it increased taxes for the rich to raise money for universal health coverage (UHC). Large companies were not spared either. They were required to provide a decent cover for their employees and dependants or face stiff penalties. INSURANCE Insurance firms would no longer discriminate against people with pre-existing medical conditions. Previously, insurers had the choice of turning away such clients or enrolling them and charging them higher premiums. Under the “Obama cover”, there was no turning away any person who wanted to get insurance. Also, they would pay the same premium as a healthy person would. Further, premiums were regulated. Closer home, there are countries in Africa that have tried new ways of financing healthcare. Rwanda, for instance, runs the community-based health insurance scheme, Mutuelle de santé, where the wealthy pay relatively high premiums to cover the poorest, who access services for free. Again, Rwanda is among the six African countries that signed up for the Abuja Declaration in 2001. The declaration proposed that at least 15 percent of the national Budget in African Union member states goes into financing healthcare. Rwanda actually goes above the threshold — a show of huge commitment to universal healthcare. AUTONOMY Ethiopia introduced a healthcare financing reform in 2005 that allowed for health facilities to retain the revenue collected and use it as they saw fit. That is also the case in Rwanda. This made local health facilities fast-track their equipping, expanding and ending medical supplies deficits. The only notable attempt that Kenya has made to put in place aggressive strategies to finance healthcare was in 2004. The then-Health Minister Charity Ngilu (now Kitui County Governor), took a proposal to Parliament that, in a way, would have seen the rich take care of the healthcare needs of the poor. The National Social Health Insurance Bill sought to base premiums on an employee’s salary scale with employers matching the contributions. The government would also chip in with some money. Employers and employees alike were not happy. Ministers and MPs, though divided, passed the Bill. However, then-President Mwai Kibaki, for unknown reasons, did not assent to it. POVERTY The National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) has undergone some reforms to increase access to healthcare and also provide outpatient cover. Though it has raised the premiums, the national insurer does not quite say how it plans to cater for the low-income and the poor. Sure, we have free maternal care and the scheme caters for the elderly and the vulnerable, such as orphans and persons with disabilities. But what about someone who can’t afford it? It’s important to ask, are there people who previously could afford the Sh160 premium to get the NHIF cover but cannot raise the new rate of Sh500? It is also important to monitor how many among the self-employed pay regularly in a bid to curb default. REFORMS But with this notable attempt, reforms in NHIF alone cannot deliver universal healthcare — which is one of the pillars in the ‘Big Four’ agenda. This is a great opportunity to review the healthcare financing strategies. We can start by regulating premiums among the private healthcare insurers to make it more widely affordable. Also, it is time Kenya aligned itself with the many related declarations that it has signed, and the Abuja Declaration is a good place to start. Other nations are willing to take big risks. We can take a leaf from them. Ms Njeri is a healthcare specialist. saranjeri018@gmail.com  