Financial challenges could force Kenya coach Sebastien Migne to do without the services of captain Victor Wanyama and Michael Olunga in a crucial Group ‘F’ match of the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers against Ethiopia. Buoyed by the historic 1-0 triumph over Ghana in Nairobi on September 8, a confident Harambee Stars are looking to beat Ethiopia’s Walya Antelopes over two legs to be in a good position to qualify for next year’s tournament to be held in Cameroon. Kenya play Ethiopia away on October 10 at the 60,000-seater Bahir Dar Stadium in Bahir Dar, Ethiopia, followed by the return leg at the Kasarani Stadium in Nairobi four days later, in assignments whose outcomes will hugely impact on Kenya’s chances of qualifying for next year’s tournament in Cameroon. In an incident which closely mirrors Kenya’s bungled 2018 World Cup qualification matches against Cape Verde Island in November 2015, Nation Sport has reliably learnt that the government was by Tuesday evening yet to dispatch tickets for the 14 foreign-based players. “We are still in talks (with government officials) and we hope to have the tickets dispatched (to the players). Our hope is to have the tickets by Friday,” said Barry Otieno, Football Kenya Federation’s media officer. Sports Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia said the government ‘was doing everything possible to prepare the team for the game’. “Unless there is another issue, I can assure you all the players called up will be available for the games (against Ethiopia). We will continue to provide any other support when the funds are availed by the exchequer,” said Kaberia. The government is mandated with the responsibility of taking care of the welfare of all national teams heading to competitive assignments. Football Kenya Federation (FKF) also shares in the responsibility. The federation’s president Nick Mwendwa recently announced that the body is flat broke. A similar challenge in the run-up to matches against Cape Verde three years ago forced Sam Nyamweya who was FKF president at the time to plead with Wanyama and his fellow foreign-based players to purchase their travel tickets. Besides Wanyama and Olunga, Migne has also called up Zambia-based duo of Musa Mohammed and Anthony Akumu, Brian Mandela who is based in South Africa, alongside David Ochieng, Eric Johanna, Eric Ouma and Ovella Ochieng, all of whom ply their trade in Sweden. Meanwhile, the remaining local-based players, led by Tusker goalkeeper Patrick Matasi, Sofapaka striker Pistone Mutamba, his club-mate Dennis Odhiambo and Gor Mahia’s Francis Kahata are expected to commence training under Migne either at the Kenya School of Monetary Studies or Utalii College in Nairobi Wednesday morning. As Migne waits to discover which players he will be working with, Ethiopia, who beat Sierra Leone in the other Group ‘F’ game in Kenya’s group, have already commenced preps for this match in Addis Ababa under the guidance of coach Abraham Mebratu. “Our goal is to win all our home matches,” Ethiopia captain Getaneh Kabede told Soccer Ethiopia.  