Chaotic scenes too centre stage at Gusii Water and Sanitation Company (Gwasco) offices in Kisii town on Wednesday, when county enforcement officers stormed in and kicked out Managing Director John Moguche. Four staff members, including Mr Moguche’s secretary, were seized and taken to Kisii Central police cells. BOARD ORDERS An enforcement officer told the Nation thatthey acted on orders by the new board. They took action despite a court case in which new directors were stopped from taking office. The new board is reportedly keen on installing Mr Moguche's deputy, Mr Osborne Obaigwa, served in acting capacity for the last three months as Mr Moguche was on sick leave. Officials of the new board denied claims that they want to install a new managing director. They accused Mr Moguche of slighting them by not showing them medical documents on his travel to Australia for medical attention, which is what he told them when he took the leave. The MD has turned to court to prevent his forceful removal from office, noting his term expires in March 2019. He is also fighting an interdiction at the labour court in Kisumu, which ordered him back in office until January 15 when it will give a ruling.   NO WAR At a press conference, the board officials fought off claims of orchestrating a war against Mr Moguche. Chair Mongeri Irieri emphasised that they want the documents on his Australia trip. “It is procedural that if he appeared before the board before, he should re-appear upon return before he is cleared to go back to office," he told reporters. He termed information on their alleged sacking of Mr Moguche as misleading and figment of people’s imagination. “There are no such plans and the board is interested in enforcing a smooth takeover by his deputy, whom he left to manage the office,” he said.   OLD BOARD The chair further said that the managing director is being misled by members of the old board, which had been disbanded. ”He is relying a lot on a team that is not in office and which is misleading him,” said Mr Ireri. Mr Moguche wrote off the new board, saying matters regarding its constitution were still in court. He said it is invalid and thus cannot transact the business of the company in its current form. “How do you work with a board that has a pending case in court? The board dismissed his sentiments saying it resulted out of a court ruling by Justice David Majanja on the disbandment of the first board because of lack of quorum.   The county blames political rivals for the filth.