Uncertainty over the next government strategy to raise revenues and the recently introduced taxes are the biggest source of migraines for investors and manufacturers. Lack of a predictable tax regime has left many guessing on counter-measures needed to cushion their operations against government-induced tax pains. The situation has been worsened by State agencies’ delay in inspecting imported raw materials, culminating in hefty demurrage charges that have also seen the government impose a 20 per cent tax. Kenya Association of Manufacturers (KAM) acting chief executive Tobias Olando says the government has stifled the competitiveness of Kenyan goods abroad by introducing a raft of taxes along the entire chain forcing manufacturers to pass on the costs to consumers. “We commend the government on waging a vicious battle against illicit trade and promoting market access for Kenyan goods abroad but we lack a predictable business environment and that has withered our competitiveness,” said Olando. Speaker after speaker at a Nairobi forum convened by KAM last week, lamented ongoing policy shifts that introduced new taxes on cash transfers, withdrawals as well as other financial transactions that attract a fee, saying this amounted to choking Kenyans’ access to money for personal and corporate development activities. In 2017, Kenya’s economy reported over 24.1 million bank-to-bank transfers and over 215.6 million card payments worth Sh3.95 trillion and Sh1.4 trillion respectively. Kenya Bankers Association Director Nuru Mugambi said Kenya was killing technological innovations in mobile payments by introducing new taxes based on transactions. The financial tax has been increased from 10 per cent to 20 percent. “There are 200,000 mobile money agents across the country who risk closing shop if Kenyans reduce use of mobile money services. Banks have their own Pesalink platform, electronic money transfers as well as the numerous apps that have revolutionalised how Kenyans utilise financial services to improve their lives,” she said. The latest Markit Stanbic Bank Kenya Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) reported that last month local manufacturers experienced slower output levels and order growth, an indication that higher prices occasioned by a raft of tax changes were hurting the economy. “September data signalled a slower improvement in business conditions in Kenya’s private sector, with the latest expansion being the weakest in the current 10-month phase of growth,” said Stanbic and Markit in the report. The PMI reading for September stood at 52.7, compared to 54.6 in August. PMI readings above 50 signal an improvement in business conditions on the previous month, while readings below 50 show a deterioration. Institute of Economic Affairs’ John Mutua said Kenya needs to improve on its project implementation rate that currently stands at a 71 per cent absorption rate. “State agencies must priotise projects that benefit Kenyans and avoid white elephants. Let us freeze employment at the national and county levels, manage debt and urgently address issues of efficient spending as well as seal tax leakages,” he said. KAM’s vice-chairman Mucai Kunyiha called for review of the current tax mechanism and reversion to the traditional arrangement where individual companies had a customs warehouse for finished goods. “This is where taxation should start, not at raw material sourcing stage. Taxes on petrol, imports re-inspection fees, transport costs as well as staff and other operational costs are all factored in the final product making it very expensive,” he said. Audit and tax consultancy firm EY’s Associate Director John Gikima, however, welcomed taxes on airtime and data bundles, saying this had finally brought in more people onto the loop that were initially excluded. Mr Gikima said the current strategy would deeply hurt the poor who rely on kerosene for their fuel and lighting needs. He said taxing money transfer services was a bad idea since it would hurt the successful financial inclusion achievements.   Manufacturers want a national forum to discuss recent tax increases, saying Kenyan-made products were fast becoming uncompetitive in the global market.