Ministries cut their spending on entertainment by Sh1 billion in the year to June amid an austerity drive to curb wastage. Public offices spent Sh4.75 billion on parties and receptions, down from the Sh5.75 splashed in a similar period a year earlier. President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto made the biggest cut on entertainment budget at Sh294 million to spend Sh1.43 billion in the period under review. The Presidency –which comprises the offices of Mr Kenyatta and Mr Ruto – used Sh1.73 billion in a similar period a year earlier, according to the Controller of Budget report. The Ministry of Sports shed Sh205 million on its entertainment budget to spend Sh115 million in the year, from the Sh436 million used in a similar period a year earlier. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs chopped Sh176 million from its budget on hospitality to spend Sh320 in the year to June. The Sh1 billion cut on the entertainment is the biggest since the onset of devolution in 2013. At Sh1.4 billion, the Presidency’s entertainment budget accounted for 30 per cent of the Sh4.7 billion that public offices spent on parties and receptions in the period. It represents a 17.3 percent drop in spending on hospitality, which includes drinks and catering. It is also during this period that Mr Kenyatta and Mr Ruto criss-crossed the country hunting for votes as they sought a second term. The prolonged election period started ahead of the August 8 General Election and continued to the end of November when Mr Kenyatta was declared the winner after the repeat October 26 presidential vote. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) spent Sh1.3 billion on entertainment, accounting for 27.3 per cent of the total spend by public offices. The polls agency hired training venues in the days to the election, paid schools that acted as polling stations and tallying centres. The prolonged election period which started ahead of the August 8 General election raised the agency’s budget during the period as it offered its staff packaged meals and refreshments. The Supreme Court nullified the August 8 poll over irregularities, compelling the IEBC to seek additional funds to prepare for the October polls.   Report shows that the country’s debt as a ration of GDP has already surpassed the 50pc limit