A family in Ambusket village in Olenguruone, Kuresoi South in Nakuru County can now continue with arrangements of the burial of a man who was beheaded during recent clashes after his head was found. The decomposing head was recovered near Olengape River in Olpusimoru, Narok North on Saturday, a day after Maasai and Kipsigis elders held a peace meeting in Olenguruone. Following the recovery of the head, the family, who had refused to bury the man’s body insisting that authorities first ensure the head is found, will embark on giving their kin a decent burial. BEHEADED The family of Mr Robert Chepkwony, 33, postponed his burial on Friday and vowed not to bury his body until his head is found. He was beheaded during the recent Olpusimoru clashes along the Nakuru-Narok border. According to the family, the man, together with his friends, were looking for stolen cattle when he was attacked. His body has been lying at the Molo Sub-County Hospital mortuary for the last three weeks as relatives combed the forest in search of his head. Olmariko Sub-Location Assistant Chief Joseph Nkapiani said the head was found by a herder who was grazing near River Olengape. "The man was herding his livestock when a foul stench hit him and it was then that he realised he had stumbled on the decomposing head," said Mr Nkapiani. DECOMPOSING HEAD Mr Nkapiani said the head was found around 5pm Saturday, a few metres from where the beheaded body was recovered. The administrator said the decomposing head was intact and that police took it to Molo Sub-County hospital mortuary. The chairman of the funeral committee, Mr Stephen Rono, said they would set the new burial date now that the missing part of their kin has been found. "We shall announce the new date for the burial immediately I consult with the family," said Mr Rono. Mr Elijah Kimutai, 60, said it is against the Kalenjin traditions to bury a body without the head. "The funeral was postponed as per the Kalenjin traditions which state that the dead cannot be buried without the head," said Mr Kimutai.   Family says it is against Kalenjin traditions to burry a headless body.