Great Britain’s four-time Olympic track gold medallist Mo Farah is loved and loathed in equal measure. His friends and training partners in Kenya’s North Rift region will most certainly not be backing him at Sunday’s Chicago Marathon where Kenya will field a star-studded line-up that draws inspiration from compatriot Eliud Kipchoge’s record run in Berlin last month. The anticipated explosive Chicago Marathon action is expected to draw a good crowd of athletes at Kapsabet’s Stevenice Hydepark Hotel where Bank of Africa have organised another race viewing session in the increasingly popular “viewerthon” series where athletes are educated on vast issues besides watching the live marathon action. Athletes and fans will also follow the race in droves across the region known as the world’s distance running capital. The Chicago Marathon will be Farah’s third assault on the 42-kilometre distance since making his debut at the 2014 London Marathon where he clocked two hours, eight minutes and 21 seconds, finishing eighth. In April this year, Farah lowered his marathon personal best to 2:06:21, a British record, in finishing third. He faces seasoned campaigners in Chicago, including Kenya’s current and former world marathon champions, namesakes Geoffrey Kirui and Abel Kirui. At the Stevenice Hydepark Hotel viewing party, Bank of Africa have teamed up with LG Electronics, Kenya Revenue Authority, Anti-Doping Agency of Kenya, Fly Tristar, Banda Homes and Enda running shoe company to offer the athletes and fans a treat. “This is the fifth straight year we are hosting the “viewerthon” which gives us a chance to better interact with our customers and the athletics community," said Bank of Africa’s Head of Marketing, Jimmi Wanjohi at the “viewerthons” launch recently. “Together with our partners, we use “viewerthons” as an opportunity to offer financial advice to the local athletics community and other stakeholders.” This year, Bank of Africa have organised the viewing sessions for the Boston, London and Berlin Marathons across the North Rift region and have also lined up a similar party at Eldoret’s Sirikwa Hotel for the New York Marathon on November 4.  