Elders in the Rift Valley have raised concern following reports that young men are selling land to finance expensive lifestyles. Myoot Council, a group comprising Kalenjin elders, said many youths are disposing of family land to buy motorcycles. Mr John Yego, a member of the council, said the number of landless people in the region will go up if the trend does not stop. He said the sale of family land should be approved by elders to avoid conflicts "which have become common in the Rift Valley". MANY COMPLAINTS Mr Yego added that some youths take advantage of their parents' illiteracy and ignorance to sell land. "Others look for buyers as soon as their parents die," he said in Eldoret. “We have been receiving many complaints from elderly residents about fraudulent selling of land by their sons.” Myoot Council chairman John Seii said elders are worried by the rate at which young men are selling land "sometimes with the help of wayward elders". “We are dealing with many complaints regarding this matter and if it is not addressed now, many families in the Rift valley will not have land in 15 years. They are selling land for no good reasons,” Mr Seii told the Nation by the phone. Mr Yego asked Uasin Gishu County Commissioner Abdi Hassan, his deputies, chiefs and assistant chiefs to convene a meeting of stakeholders "and see if we can find a solution to this problem". FAMILY PLOTS According to Mr Yego, the young men collude with rogue Ministry of Lands officials to sell family plots. "Many family members are never aware of these transactions," Mr Yego said. He added that the council would not allow more sale of land in Uasin Gishu County without the involvement of elders and all family members. “We ask government administrators to intervene and suspend ongoing land transactions until due process is followed. We do not want conflicts over property in future,"" Mr Yego, who is also the council chairman in Turbo Sub-County, said. "Many of these young men sell land just to buy motorcycles. The menace and the craze for motorbikes is also contributing to an increase in the number of school dropouts”. He added that administrators, especially chiefs and their assistants, involved in fraudulent land deals should be dismissed.  