Mr Brian Kassaine, a suspect in the murder of businesswoman Monica Kimani, has suffered a similar fate to that of his co-accused, journalist Jacque Maribe and her fiancé Joseph Irungu. Mr Kassaine, who was presented before Kiambu Principal Magistrate Justus Kituku on Monday, will spend 11 more days in a police cell. The suspect, who covered his face throughout the court session that lasted more than an hour, will be held at the Langata Police Station in Nairobi. Detectives suspect that Mr Kassaine's gun was used by Mr Irungu to shoot himself in the left side of his chest to cover up the murder. In their request in court, the prosecution said Mr Kassaine has crucial information that could help reveal the murderers of Ms Kimani. If allowed to leave the cells, they said, the suspect would interfere with ongoing investigations into the case. But the suspect, through his lawyer, opposed the application, terming as “unreasonable” the number of days police requested. Mr Kassaine and Ms Maribe are neighbours at Royal Park estate in Lang’ata. Police found a gun hidden in the ceiling of Mr Kassaine's house. His arraignment came hours after Ms Maribe's appearance before Mr Kituku, who allowed police to hold her for 11 more days as they wrap up their investigations. The drama surrounding Mr Irungu and his fiancée started on Wednesday, September 19, when Mr Irungu, who passes himself off as a security guard, knocked on Ms Kimani’s Kilimani apartment door. Ms Kimani, whom Mr Irungu is said to have dated earlier, had just flown in from Juba, South Sudan, and was in the company of two men when Mr Irungu walked in. Detectives believe two men left the apartment at around 11pm, giving Mr Irungu and Ms Kimani, who they said looked quite familiar and comfortable with each other, time and space to catch up. A few hours later, Ms Kimani lay in her bathtub, dead. Police sources said Ms Kimani seemed to have been killed by a professional assassin. Her hands were tied behind her back and her mouth taped shut. Her feet, too, were tied together, meaning she could not escape, defend herself, or shout for help. The assassin then expertly slit her throat from ear to ear and dumped her body in her bathtub.   Citizen TV news anchor loses battle for temporary freedom.