A countrywide crackdown on rogue public service vehicles is set to begin in three weeks, the government has announced. The government has given matatu owners and passengers until November 12 to fully comply with the National Transport and Safety Authority Act 2013, the Traffic Act Cap. 403, and Legal Notice 161 of 2003 commonly known as “Michuki rules”. “In the recent past, there has been an upsurge in the number of road accidents involving Public Service Vehicles, mainly attributed to lack of observance of the laws governing traffic management. These accidents have led to loss of lives and suffering,” the government said in a statement by Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia and his Interior counterpart Fred Matiang’i. The two ministers went on: “Therefore, effective Monday, 12th November 2018, any PSV vehicle, drivers, saccos/transport companies, passengers and other relevant parties that fail to comply with the provisions of the NTSA Act and the Traffic Act will be firmly dealt with in accordance with the law.” The new rules would mean that all public service vehicles will be fitted with speed governors, safety belts, and the yellow line. While some of the matatus were still adhering to the law, there had been a laxity among the operators and enforcement agencies. The announcement comes just two weeks after the Fort Ternan crash in Kericho County which killed 58 people. The accident only added to Kenya’s grim statistics of road crashes—which has killed a frightening 8,000 people in the last three years alone. A staggering 91 per cent of the crashes are attributed to human related factors like speeding, reckless driving, dangerous overtaking and drunk driving, aspects that the governments hopes to reduce by the enforcement of the dreaded Michuki Rules. In the statement, Dr Matiang’i and Mr Macharia said that, as per the law, all PSV drivers and conductors are required to wear uniforms and badges, as well as prominently display their photos, at all times when they are at work. “It will be a ruthless, painful and sustained exercise until we see the return of order in the sector,” Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho told the Nation last Wednesday about the new enforcement drive. “This time, it will be meticulous”.   Authorities planning the mother of all crackdowns to restore order on roads.