Five years ago, the Presidential Task Force on Parastatal Reforms submitted its report to President Uhuru Kenyatta. Its most notable proposal was scrapping or merging parastatals as part of austerity measures. That included the amalgamation of the Youth Enterprise Development Fund, Uwezo Fund, Women Enterprise Development Fund, and Micro and Small Enterprise Authority. Critics and analysts gave the report a thumbs-up, saying the recommendations would align state corporations to the Constitution as they contribute to national development goals while reducing over-dependence on the Exchequer. Despite the President’s immediate directive to implement the reforms, there has been little progress. For instance, it was not until May that regulations to guide the operationalisation of Biashara Kenya Fund were approved. CREDIT Nonetheless, in a recent interview, the Public Service Cabinet Secretary Margaret Kobia gave the clearest signal yet on the execution schedule, saying the fund would be actualised within six months. Over the years, taxpayers have asked the government to implement the recommendations to avoid duplication and overlaps in State agencies. The government’s focus on creating an enabling environment for youth, women and people with disabilities to do business by providing credit and capacity building is laudable. Access to credit has been difficult since the introduction of interest rate caps on bank loans in 2018. A number of beneficiaries have established businesses, joining the much-needed pool of micro, small- and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs). LIFESPAN However, statistics paint a grim picture as most MSMES don’t live to celebrate their third birthday with a high failure rate among them. Most have a very low survival rate within the first three years. This is not sustainable, especially for entrepreneurs who borrow to establish business entities. Biashara Kenya Fund gives us a perfect opportunity to invest in business development support for the start-ups to ensure their sustainability. With the amalgamation of these funds, the government can pool resources to adequately provide that support. The President allocated Sh2 billion annually to the fund to lend at a concessionary six percent rate. With long-term business development support, businesses would access funding only when they commit to receiving these services. ADVICE To upscale the training countrywide, Huduma Centres can provide a hub for the business development services. The fund is a huge policy achievement that could help to curb the twin challenges of youth unemployment and poverty. Additionally, it could facilitate the development of a database, research and reports on MSMEs’ performance. Considering the huge public debt, supporting the MSMEs would ensure they are sustainable and, therefore, raise their contribution to the gross domestic product (GDP), a sure win for youth and our country. Ms Juma is a co-founder of Six Degrees Consultancy. ajowijuma@gmail.com  