An All-Star Festival basketball extravaganza set for the Nyayo National Stadium on Saturday will be used to select the Kenya men’s and women’s teams for international friendly matches in Rwanda and Uganda later in the year. As a result of this, Maxine Milimu, a KBF official who is coordinating the event, on Thursday said regular season league matches slated for Saturday have been moved to Sunday to allow all players selected an opportunity to participate in the event. Milimu, Demond Owili, a Kenyan international, who plies his trade in Australia said he had personally fully-sponsored the All-Star Festival with an aim of assembling a national men’s and women’s teams that will be on call for international assignments at all times. Owili, who plays professional basketball for Kylsith Cobras in the Australian top league, will cater for all the logistics of the festival that include paying for the Nyayo facility, match officials and individual awards for the players who will take part in shooting competition, dunking contest among other events. “My basketball, which I learnt here in Kenya, has helped change my life in so many ways through academic scholarships and a professional contract and I believe it’s now time for me to pay back in cash and kind thus the reason for the festival,” said Owili in Nairobi. According to him, the Kenya men’s and women’s teams, which will be coached by Cliff Owuor and Ronnie Owino respectively, will then be assembled for high profile build-up matches in Rwanda and Uganda ahead of major tournaments events set for next year. Kenya women’s team is, for example, set to take part in the Africa Nations Cup qualifiers in March next year. According to Milimu, the local-based men’s team will take on foreign-based players while the women’s teams have been called Western Conference and Eastern Conferences. The opposing teams will play each other once after which the two national teams will be picked. The Nairobi Basketball League semi-finals will curtain raise the day’s main events. The Diaspora team will be handled by Equity coach Carey "T9" Odhiambo and American Travis Coleman while the locals will be handled by USIU coach Cliff Owuor and Ben Oluoch. Western Conference have coaches David Maina, Everlyne Kedogo and Justus Akhwesa while Morris Obie of Zetech University and Anthony Ojukwu of KPA will handle Eastern Conference team. SQUADS Men: Diaspora: Desmond Owili (Austria), Airal Okal (Seychelles), Frank Ogola, Samuel Agutu (Uganda Christian University), Brian Namake (Kampala International University), Brian Muramba, Ben Gatete and Philip Ameny (all Uganda-based) Carey T9 Odhiambo (coach), Travis Coleman (coach) Locals: Tiberius Menya, William Ochieng, Eric Mutoro(Ulinzi Warriors), Alex Lugasi (Equity), Fidel Okoth, George Okoth, Darel Omondi (Strathmore Blades), Victor Bosire,Dan Omondi, James Mwangi, Martin Kitongo (KPA), Paul Ereng, Paddy Owuor (Riara University), Alvin Nyangweso (USIU), Grifith Ligare (Thunder), Joseph Khaemba (Oilers), Cliff Owuor (coach), Ben Oluoch (coach) Women: Western Conference: Samba Mjomba, Hilda Luvandwa, Celine Okumu, Bettie Kananu, Belinda Akoth, Rita Aluoch (Equity Bank), Winnie wafula, Eunice Ouma (Eagle Wings), Rachael Wandago, Beryl Diana, Rose Mshila (Kenya University), Daisy Ayodi (Footprints), David Maina (coach), Everlyne Kedogo (coach), Justus Akhwesa (coach) Eastern Conference: Mercy Wanyama, Melisa Akinyi, Becky Nkatha (Storms), Daisy Lugendo, Ochieng Cilia Atieno (USIU), Cynthia Mawero, Maureen Bosibori, Lucy Mbithe (Zetech University), Rebecca Nkatha, Annerose Mandella, Debra Atieno (KPA), Morris Obie (coach), Anthony Ojukwu (coach)  