One of the WhatsApp statuses in my contacts reads: DO NOT ADD ME TO GROUPS. Genius, right? This person never has to worry about waking up to find themselves in some odd group such as 'Kambere Cattledip' or 'Boys gone crazy.' Ideally, no one will add him into any groups because his views on that are crystal clear. However, some people are despicable as far as etiquette is concerned and will go ahead and add him to a wedding planning committee group. Mark you, the wedding couple will be totally alien to him, but that has never stopped an overzealous WhatsApp admin before now has it? Should he opt to "left", the admin will swiftly add him back-- the nerve! SUFFERING Many people are suffering silently in these WhatsApp groups. They would love more than anything to leave, but they cannot muster the courage to click on the tempting ' Leave group' button on their phone. It is even more difficult when one is bound by some loyalties to the group members as is the case of those family or colleague groups. I used to suffer too, mostly because I thought leaving a group was rude and would severe my friendship and family ties. I didn't wish to rub anyone the wrong way. After a while, I found myself in so many WhatsApp groups and it became overwhelming. I would be offline for a few minutes and the moment I came back on-line, my phone would go into a frenzy with notifications of new messages, mostly composed of those tasteless forwarded messages from various groups. One day, I decided to put a stop to that madness. I left six groups in one sitting and it was the best feeling ever. END THE MISERY The first step was acknowledging that the phone belonged to me, and I had every right to regulate the kind of activity I wished to engage in and also how I wished to spend my bundles. Next, I made peace with the fact that I would annoy a few admins but I was comforted in knowing that they would soon get over the hurt. They would not waste their precious anger on me, not when treasury is discussing taxes on chocolate. There are enough anger-inducing issues in this country, I was not going to spark anything new. It is from the overflow of this relief that I share with you six reasons you should leave that cumbersome WhatsApp group and put an end to your misery:  If you have not been consulted and given your consent to be added into a group. It is not by chance that this is my first reason. When someone adds you into a group, they are demanding your time, energy and even resources such as internet bundles. It is only polite for them to alert you BEFORE going ahead to invade your space. You are under no obligation to play catch up after someone takes it upon themselves to manage your time and how you use your internet. I would be very cautious of associating with people who don't bother to find out if I am interested in being involved with their plans, it reeks of selfishness.  If you find the group irrelevant and cannot resonate with its activities. A friend once texted me asking to add me in a group for writers. I agreed and thought it would be a great platform to learn and network. One day later I realised that the group was specifically for poets. I cannot write a poem to save my life! I left the group very fast. I later explained to him why I had to leave and that was it.  If the cause for the group is done. Some groups are temporary and meant for planning such as wedding/ funeral/ fundraising committees. There are admins who "forget" to dismantle the group after the event occurs. If you are afraid that your “lefting” action will hurt people’s feelings, you are right, it will. But on the other hand, you have already done your part by contributing and maybe even attending on the D-day. Think of it as how we leave the theatre after the curtains close and the play is ended. Move on.  When the group loses its objective. Some groups start out great, until that clingy salesperson decides to bombard the group wall with endless stacks of promotional messages. What I fail to understand is this, don't these people think that the rest of the group members also have a hustle or two going on but opt to RESPECT the group’s agenda? I get it, times are tough and that group of 120 members seems like a dream market...but that was not why the group was formed. When you joined the group, you were not looking for the best data deals or a 1/8th acre for sale, feel free to leave without any fear.  If the bonds weaken and you become distant to fellow group members. When I was interning for my undergraduate practicum at a certain organisation, I became immersed in the company culture. I had so much fun hanging out with the people there that I kept wishing the internship would last a bit longer. I cannot kick a ball without toppling over but that didn't stop me from joining the company's soccer team WhatsApp group. But the internship ended and I went back to school. I couldn't keep up with the hype or even maintain the friendships fostered while 300 miles away. Eventually we stopped talking with some of them, not because we were mad at each other, but simply because we grew apart. So I left that soccer WhatsApp group. If the vibe is gone, it is gone. It was terrific while it lasted but do not be guilt-tripped into staying on in a group while your spirit is miles apart from the rest of the group members.  If you feel a strong urge to leave the group. Sometimes you may not have a solid reason as to why you wish to leave. An unrelenting nagging or gut-feeling could be pushing you to break free from a certain group. You know that itching that somethings doesn't feel quite right? Instinct could be causing sirens to go off in your mind, all them wailing in a chorus “leave group…leave group”. It would be wise to hearken to that voice. In light of recent events where people are being whisked away by the police and arrested on grounds of association, you never can tell what the universe is trying to shield you from.  Do you have feedback on this story? E-mail: lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com   What if both parties are consenting and it is a matter of willing buyer willing seller?