Homeboyz RFC tactician Paul “Pau” Murunga has been appointed Kenya Sevens head coach. Murunga, who will be deputised by Mwamba Rugby head coach Kevin “Bling” Wambua, takes over from Innocent “Namcos” Simiyu. The 36-year-old was the deputy Kenya Sevens head coach during the 2015 and 2016 seasons when the team made history, winning its first World Rugby Series event, the Singapore Sevens. The World Rugby Level II coach also guided Homeboyz to the National Sevens Series victory in 2016 and 2018 besides leading the club's 15s team to Kenya Cup semi-finals twice and Enterprise Cup victory in 2017. The former utility forward played for the now defunct Ulinzi Rugby between 2001 and 2004 and captained their sevens team before moving to Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB). Murunga featured for the KCB between 2005-2009 where he captained the team to Kenya Cup victories in 2006 and 2009 before moving to pioneer the formation of Homeboyz Rugby. Announcing the appointments on Friday, Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) director of national squad Ray Olendo said Murunga and Wambua will serve for a period of two years. Olendo disclosed that strength and conditioning coach Geoffrey Kimani and physiotherapist Lameck Bogonko, have retained their positions in the team. A total of nine coaches including seven foreigners applied for the job. Murunga’s first assignment will be this year’s Safari Sevens due November 9-11 at the RFUEA grounds since Simiyu’s contract ends at the end of October this year. Simiyu will still handle Kenya Sevens team for Rugby Africa Cup Sevens due October 13-14 in Tunis, Tunisia. “I know it’s a tough assignment since people will have different expectations hence a lot of pressure,” said Murunga. “I will manage since I have been there before.” Murunga, a Kenya Defence Forces senior private, indicated that his selection was right on time going by his good performance especially this season after guiding his team to the National Sevens Series circuit victory. Murunga said the rugby fraternity is likely to see more new players coming through since most of the senior players in Kenya Sevens will be with Kenya Simbas for the last qualifying tournament for 2019 Rugby World Cup due November 11-23 in Marseille, France. Murunga said senior players like Andrew Amonde, Collins Injera, Dennis Ombachi and Nelson Oyoo are likely to miss out on the opening leg of the 2018/2019 World Rugby Sevens Series in Dubai and South Africa. “It will be a good opportunity for young players to fight for positions in the team,” said Murunga adding he is happy to work with Wambua, who is also the Kenya Lionesses head coach. “He was the only challenger in the local series and it’s good to work with him.”  