The 2014 champion Reuben Kipruto Siwa will be out recapture the Standard Chartered Nairobi Marathon title when the race goes down on Sunday in the Kenyan capital city. Siwa clocked 2 hours, 12 minutes and 24 seconds to win the race eight years ago, as Edith Irungu reigned supreme in the women’s race. Siwa is among 70 elite athletes, who had registered by Thursday for the event that will also feature other four races. Route director George Kariuki indicated that even though close to 18,000 participants had registered by Thursday, a surge is expected on Friday ahead of the entries closure on Saturday at 2pm. “We are all set for the championships and participants should collect their running kits at Kenyatta International Convention Centre,” said Kariuki. Sammy Kipyego and Cornelius Chepkok, who finished in 21st and 22nd places respectively last year, are back to atone for their poor show last year with victory. Julius Kipyego Keter, who was placed second at the Standard Chartered Hong Kong Marathon last year, Edinburgh Marathon champion Julius Kiplagat Korir and 2012 "Nordea" Riga Marathon champion Titus Kipkorir Kurgat, will grace this year’s event. Keter, who is yet to compete this year, won the Mérida Marathon in Mexico in January last year in 2:21:22, before finishing second at the Hong Kong Standard Chartered Marathon in 2:10:34, a month later. Emmanuel Kibet, who finished sixth in Lanzhou Marathon in China in June, as well as Abraham Kipchirchir Limo, who finished second at the 2016 Verona Marathon in Italy and third in Salzburg Marathon (Austria) last year, will also be in the mix. Naomi Jepkorir, fresh from winning the Bank of Jiangsu Nanjing Lishui Half Marathon last month in 1:17.05, targets victory in the women’s race. The 2016 Rock and Roll Madrid marathon fifth place finisher, Sylvia Jemeli in a time of 2:44.31 goes for this year’s top honours. Jepkorir and Jemeli will have it rough from Valary Ayaibei, who is back to defend her Half Marathon title. Ayaibei is also fresh from winning the Beijing Marathon on September 16, where she ended Kenya's drought clocking 2:21:38 to become the first Kenyan woman to win at the Chinese capital city.  