When Mr John Nyaga Njuki was invited to pray at a function attended by Chief Justice David Maraga in Ol Kalou Township on October 12, nothing was unusual about the routine protocol. Dressed in a black suit, a light blue shirt and a spotted red tie, he stepped forward from behind the tent that was reserved for VIPs holding a massive Bible. He might as well have been your ordinary pastor. But his keen listeners, who included Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia and top Judiciary officials, were in for a rude shock after his brief prayers. His powerful testimony on his murky past touched many and earned him a rare meeting with Justice Maraga. His revelation about his life in prison and how he turned his long incarceration to transform his life seemed to have touched the CJ. 22 YEARS IN JAIL Immediately after laying the foundation stone for the Sh400 million Ol Kalou law courts, Justice Maraga invited Mr Nyaga to accompany him to Nakuru GK Prison the following day where the CJ joined inmates for a service. “It never crossed my mind that one day I will ever have a chance to meet such a high profile personality like Chief Justice Maraga,” said Mr Nyaga, 58. He is an ex-Traffic policeman who is finding meaning after 22 years behind bars. He was released on presidential pardon on October 25, 2016. But how did Mr Nyaga, who was a police corporal attached to Naivasha Traffic Base, land in jail? ROBBERY WITH VIOLENCE On November 18, 1994, Mr Nyaga was arrested for robbery with violence when he joined a gang that raided a flower firm in Naivasha town. He missed death by a whisker in the botched robbery as one gang member was shot dead. “We were a gang of seven and one of us was a Kenya Defence Forces soldier based in Gilgil,” says Mr Nyaga. After a two-year trial, he was sentenced to death alongside four other accomplices while one was released. Subsequent appeals were rejected. Mr Nyaga, who was a sharpshooter in the police service with several medals, said the trial magistrate delivered a fair verdict. “I thank God magistrate Harun Bomet used great wisdom to establish the truth and sentence me to death because if I was set free I don’t think I would be alive today,” he told Sunday Nation. PEER PRESSURE In an interview at his Karandi home in Laikipia County, Mr Nyaga said he was lured into the world of crime by peer pressure and greed. “Traffic police officers are under intense pressure to maintain a lifestyle they cannot sustain with their salaries unless they collect bribes,” he said. He recalls a bribe he took from a private motorist along the Nairobi — Naivasha highway which haunts him to this day. He stopped a speeding BMW and upon inspecting it he realised the driver, who was accompanied by four members of his family, was drunk. Instead of detaining the driver and charging him for drink driving, he took a bribe. “I took a Sh500 bribe and waved the vehicle to go,” he says. GET RICH QUICK Moments later, the car crashed near Delamere Shopping Centre. “I did not have courage to visit the scene,” Mr Nyaga says. The former policeman says when he turned into armed robbery, all that mattered was that he would get rich quick, brag to his friends and go on drinking sprees. At the age of 34, the law finally caught up with him. “I left prison at 56 and my biggest regret is that I wasted my youthful years, which I will never recover, and lost an opportunity to climb the police ranks,” he said. Mr Nyaga said he missed his two daughters — Doreen and Florence — who were aged seven and four when he was convicted. “Something I thought about every day in prison was coming home and being the father I wasn’t able to be,” he said. “Their overwhelming love and forgiveness has left me awestricken.” LOVING DAD Even though he kept apologising to his daughters for letting them down, their refrain remained: “Dad, stop saying you’re sorry. Everybody makes mistakes. We understand. We forgive you. You will remain our loving dad’.” Looking back, he says prison was a turning point after reflecting about his life. “I always preach to my audience that life in prison is like a playing ground where you choose where you want to score the ball,” he said. “If you want to turn it into a place where you can use every day to learn, grow and prepare for your second chance at life it can be one of the most powerful training grounds for success you could imagine.” But the most rewarding change, he said, was embracing Christianity. He graduated with a diploma in theology at Shimo la Tewa prison. “I want to help people overcome challenges in their lives. If I was able to overcome all the challenges while behind bars for 22 years, I can show people how to overcome theirs by preaching the word of God,” said Mr Nyaga, a Seventh Day Adventist.  