Naivas Supermarket is set to close its branch in Kitengela Mall just four months after it took up the space as an anchor tenant. The family-owned retail chain said the store, which has been operating since June, will be closed before the end of this month and all its goods transferred to its newly opened outlet at Freedom Height Mall in Lang’ata. The move, occasioned by underperformance, effectively reduces the retailer’s total store count to 45 countrywide. The new outlet in Lang’ata is located opposite Uchumi Hypermarket, behind 1824 Whiskey Bar on Lang’ata Road. “We will be closing the Kitengela Mall branch in the next two weeks … We want to ensure we are more accessible and align to new store strategy,” said Naivas chief commercial officer Willy Kimani during an interview. The retailer had hoped to tap into Kitengela’s potential for formal retail on account of its location adjacent to the busy Nairobi- Namanga highway. At the time of its opening, Kitengela Mall property manager Lloyd Masika said the owners were looking out for other tenants including banks, food chains and boutiques. Naivas, which was first establishment in 1996, has been on an expansion spree as local and international firms rush to fill the gap left by ailing Nakumatt and Uchumi supermarkets. Its growth, along with that of Tuskys Supermarkets, comes as a positive development in a sector that has in recent times seen its two dominant players succumb to mounting debt distress. Nakumatt, which was until a few months ago the country’s biggest retailer, has been the worst hit. It recently exited the coastal region and has been thrown out of various spaces it used to operate from across the country over non-payment of rent running into millions of shillings. Naivas’ new Lang’ata outlet is located opposite Uchumi Hypermarket. It has also opened branches at Ciata City Mall along Kiambu Road, another at the Junction of Kenyatta and Moi Avenue and an outlet on Moi Avenue vacated by Nakumatt Holdings.   Kenyan retail Chain Naivas will start operations on a new outlet at Freedom Height Mall in Langata on Tuesday as it continues to buck the trend in the troubled sector.