“Any recommendation for a good makeup artist in Nakuru?" reads a Facebook post. Within no time, comments tagging "Angie Boke" flood the timeline. The tag refers to Agnes Nyaboke, a Nakuru-based make-up artist who has gained popularity with make-up enthusiasts in the area if the Facebook recommendations are anything to go by. The beauty professional speaks to MARGARET MAINA about her experience as a young entrepreneur as well as her plans for the future.  Tell us about yourself. Well, most people here in Nakuru know me as Angie, but my full name is Agnes Nyaboke. I am 26 years old, and a single mother. I studied Human Resource Management and graduated with a Bachelors degree from Moi University in 2015. After graduation, I sent out numerous job applications but employment was not forthcoming. I knocked on several office doors but the answer was the same: no one was hiring. By then, I was pregnant and this made me even more desperate for a job so that I could fend for my child. With the excitement of expecting my first child, I decided to get a baby-bump photo shoot. During the photo session, I noticed that my photographer did not have an assistant. I offhandedly asked him whether he was hiring. It turned out that he was and got me a job as a receptionist in his photography company. My starting salary was Sh6,000.    So your background is in human resource management and your first job a receptionist. ..how did you end up as a make-up artist? While working at the reception, I noticed that most of the clients often enquired on whether someone would do their make-up before proceeding to the photo shoot. The company didn't have an in-house make-up artist and so we referred our clients elsewhere. I saw this as my opportunity to bargain for a better deal at the company. I began watching make-up tutorials on YouTube and sometimes my friends would let me practise on them. With time, I unlocked my creativity. I also bought my first make-up kit with my savings of Sh3,000.  How did you grow your clientele? Most of my clients were referrals from my friends. I believe that my creativity was one of the things that attracted more clients. I never shy away from experimenting. After gaining more confidence in the make-up art, I took one of my clients for a photo shoot and shared the photos online. The reception was fantastic, with many people showing appreciation for my work. This also increased the number of clients significantly. I have continued to use social media as a platform to market what I do.  What lessons have you learnt so far as you build your career? Nothing comes easy and sometimes you have to get out of your comfort zone and go for something, even if it’s risky. My parents always believed in white collar jobs, but when I started making profit, they supported me. I make between Sh1,500-Sh2,000 per client, which helps me pay my bills more comfortably.  What have you achieved so far? At the beginning of this year, I was introduced to a youth mentorship programme called 'Ongoza Youth', where I acquired skills on managing my finances. In August, I withdrew my savings of about Sh150,000 and used it as capital to launch my own business -- Taiboke Beauty Parlour -- in Nakuru Town. The business picked and I hired four employees to work with me. Sometimes we attend to about 15 clients in a day without including special events such as weddings and social parties. We have diversified our services to include face-beats, pedicure and manicure, facials and so much more. On a good month I take home between Sh30,000 to Sh50,000.    What are your plans for the future? I am looking forward to moving into a bigger space because my clients have greatly increase. I am working on and strengthening my brand. I will also be launching my make-up brushes soon.  Any advice to young people? Be open-minded and explore all your abilities. Employment is great but when you can do something on your own and earn good money, go for it. Personal gratification is important.   Amos Njoroge has helped start several community initiatives in Nakuru