President Uhuru Kenyatta publicly scolded Agriculture and Irrigation Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri on Thursday in a rare show of his frustrations over corruption. The President, speaking in mother tongue, told Mr Kiunjuri that he will be in trouble if once again money meant for maize farmers is paid out to well-connected individuals. “Mungiriha nimukuona,” the President told Mr Kiunjuri on Thursday at the Nairobi ASK show, which translates to, “If you pay, you’ll be in hot soup”. A seemingly exasperated President Kenyatta briefly turned to the minister in a faux pas moment after reading his official speech. In the maize scandal, which has seen several National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) officials charged in court, maize importers were paid millions of shilling for deliveries while genuine farmers were left out. PAY Mr Kiunjuri recoiled in his seat, seemingly shocked by the unexpected outburst. President Kenyatta, thereafter, continued with his off-the-cuff message. “I don’t want to say much … but let me just say one thing. I have heard the cries of maize farmers who say they have not been paid and the CS has just informed me that from today they have started to pay the farmers.” He continued: “But I would like to say this because the truth must be spoken. Money for paying maize farmers was in our budget for the previous financial year. And we know for sure that these people from the NCPB, instead of paying the maize farmers who have toiled so that they could get some little money to educate their children, they decided to start by irregularly paying the powerful suppliers and importers.” “I promise you … and I swear before God, you try that again and you’ll see what is going to happen to you. We don’t want these jokes anymore.” PRODUCTION Maize farmers are yet to be paid part of Sh3.5 billion for the produce they delivered to the depots over eight months ago. “We have not been blind to what has happened. And those that have engaged in this fraud, we shall follow them. Government funds are monies belonging to the citizenry,” he said in his official speech. The President said he was happy about this year’s efforts by farmers to increase the acreage under maize. “Maize output is expected to rise from 34 million to 41 million bags. Indications that we’re most likely to harvest six million bags from the short rains season, which will bring the total supply in 2018 to nearly 47 million bags. "In addition, we have 9.8 million bags in silos, which means 56 million bags are available compared to our annual consumption of 52 million bags,” he said. He asked millers to keep the price of maize flour at a reasonable rate to benefit the public.  