Any one assuming important public office is invariably granted a honeymoon period. One needs time to settle down, familiarise and generally figure out where to get the coffee or find the executive loo. One hundred days — three months — are usually the limit for one to find his way around. The two gentlemen who have been almost widely lauded for re-energising the war on serious crime are well beyond the honeymoon phase. The tag team of Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Haji and Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti have been in office for seven and 10 months, respectively. DETERMINATION Both hit the ground running and have rightfully earned plaudits for the drive and determination brought to the previously moribund offices. They seem to have been given free rein by President Uhuru Kenyatta to pursue their mandates without the shackles often imposed by the political establishment. Of course, there is something very wrong when anyone appointed to public office requires special permission, or protection, from the President in order to do his job. That’s a discussion for another day. INVESTIGATIONS The point now is that Messrs Haji and Kinoti have taken advantage of the newfound political will to approach their jobs with unusual verve and vigour. It is abundantly clear that it is no longer business as usual. Almost every other day, Kenyans are waking up to screaming headlines on investigations into government departments and State institutions that have long been beyond the long arm of the law. A large number of officers previously considered untouchable because of their political links have been summoned to answer questions on graft or actually been arrested and charged with theft. DEMOLITION The crackdown has nabbed even those who might have acted under ‘orders from above’ to divert public money towards the Jubilee election machinery or the political campaigns and private pockets of individuals near the top of the totem pole. We have also witnessed renewed resolve in the fight against impunity in general, as witnessed in the repossession of public lands grabbed by the high and mighty. Allied to that has been demolition of buildings erected on road reserves, river banks, wetlands and other areas that should never have been given planning permission. REFRESHING Apart from the fight against the national cancer of corruption, we have also seen new energy in the fight against crime, as with the speed police have moved in a recent series of high-profile murders. A refreshing aspect has been the new openness from law and order agencies that are usually notorious for secrecy and opacity. The public has been kept up to date with progress on ongoing cases. Information now routinely being made public offers interesting insights into how investigative and prosecution agencies go about their work. Some is the kind that would boost public confidence in the technical and professional capacity of our crime busters to pursue cases to logical conclusion and put criminals behind bars. COMMUNICATION Any media professional would welcome this new respect for the right to information. Whether dispensed through formal communication channels or off-record briefings, the updates have made for gripping news for newspaper readers and television viewers. However, there is also a downside (and this might sound strange coming from a journalist who would, ordinarily, demand unfettered access to information). ACCUSATORY First have been the expected protests against ‘trial by media’ from supporters of those who find themselves on the wrong side of the law. Those who have always been on the side of impunity and lawlessness will always fight back, and are using the media reports to try and turn around the narrative by pointing accusatory fingers at Mr Haji and Mr Kinoti. That, ordinarily, should not be of much concern but it does became important if it turns out that some of the juicy headlines on major breakthroughs in investigations are based on lies and inaccurate information from the agencies. It is instructive that some of the details so breathlessly reported have appeared nowhere on the charge sheets when the suspects have finally been put on the dock. INTELLIGENCE Mr Haji and Mr Kinoti might well want to use the media to float trial balloons and turn the heat on the persons of interest. That is their prerogative. However, it behoves us as responsible and professional journalists to interrogate all the information that comes our way before rushing to press. We just can’t afford to swallow and regurgitate every morsel from the police, intelligence services or any other agency. They are using us, not doing us a favour. Let us also remember that, ultimately, the war against crime will be won on convictions, not publicity blitzkrieg. Gaithomail@gmail.com; Twitter: @MachariaGaitho  