It is that time again, folks. Time for the national exams. Everyone involved in these exams is under pressure. Pressure to perform well, pressure to ensure a credible exam and pressure to ensure everyone gets the results they deserve. All these are valid and unavoidable. But, there’s a different kind of pressure that comes up during this time of the year: Pressure to “look good”, which is usually exhibited mostly in relation to the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) examinations. The exam that society has decided is a major determiner of our futures. As a result we have seen teachers and parents do whatever it takes to ensure their candidates come out on top. Cheating became so common we were reluctant to usher in the Matiang’i era where cheaters were put on notice. For a nation that claims to be 80 per cent Christians, we are receiving too many warnings against cheating, which we know is a sin. ROLE OF EXAMS We are pouring too many resources to ensure our candidates reap what they sowed — good or bad. We have also forgotten the role of examinations in life. Let's refresh our memories. Exams give candidates something to aim for. They help evaluate their skills and measure their knowledge of content taught, and also inculcate necessary qualities in life like goal setting and accomplishment, hard work, patience, time and stress management, creativity and even leadership. Exams are a tool for preparing for, or improving one’s career and, by enabling cheating, you rob students of these important lessons and perspectives of life. Exam cheating is an example of Scarcity Mentality. A way of thinking that pushes forward the notion that life has only so much of something, and if one person was to get a big piece of the something it would mean less for everyone else. PAY TO CHEAT This kind of thought pattern is limiting and that’s why many plot and pay to cheat. We think if our candidates don’t get the As then the schools’ and the candidates’ futures are doomed. Scarcity Mentality is the zero-sum paradigm of life. In such a space, people become nervous, foster unhealthy competition, suffer undue pressure and are afraid to make mistakes. The opposite of this mentality is the Abundance Mentality, which Stephen Covey defines as “a concept in which a person believes there are enough resources and successes to share with others.” This kind of thinking comes from a deep-seated sense of personal confidence and belief there is plenty out there for everyone; that by one getting something it doesn’t mean I will get less or nothing at all. Abundance Mentality opens possibilities, options, alternatives and creativity. Africa is the youngest continent in the world. In 2035, it will have the world’s largest workforce. Statistics put the number at more than 1 billion people. HUMAN CAPITAL This is a huge number of people representing a lot of human capital. Human capital is defined as experience, knowledge and skills a population has. All these people will need to work. It is this experience, knowledge and skill that will be our greatest strength in creating and performing the required jobs. National exams play a major role in determining and monitoring these standards. By creating an image that we have achieved a certain standard when we haven’t, we are deceiving our current and future selves. What we should be doing is encouraging honest gain and fulfilled lives. This begins by teaching and accepting responsibility for one’s life. Now that the government is relentless in its pursuit of honesty, let us accept the results that will be placed before us by our candidates when results are released. PURSUE DREAMS If they didn’t study, let them eat of their failure. Living is also allowing our candidates to pursue their dreams. We’ve heard of students doing their parents’ choice course. Don’t sacrifice their joy at the altar of impressing others. Living is also exchanging the scarcity mentality for the abundant one. There is certainly enough for everyone. Don't let these exams define our candidates but rather be a tool to make them better. Ms Wanjohi is the founder of Mazingira Safi Initiative. puritywanjohi@msi.or.ke  