Rhamu market in Mandera County will re-open this Sunday after six years of closure. The market was closed following skirmishes pitting the Garre and Degodia clans. According to county Trade minister Mr Abdiaziz Maad, the market will boost the local revenue by Sh4 million every financial year. “The market that was providing daily bread to families was looted, vandalized and set a blaze by clan warriors in 2013 but we have managed to rebuild it,” he said. The Mandera County government has spent Sh37 million on rebuilding the market. INTEGRATED MARKET “The new integrated market by the county government has a capacity of 165 stalls up from the initial 15 that were razed,” he said. The new market can hold up to 450 sellers at any given time within Rhamu town in Mandera North Sub-County. “The opening of the market is a milestone in the peace initiatives by the county government in which the two clans have been brought together,” he said. Rhamu MCA Kullow Alio described the new market as a unifying factor amongst clans residing in Mandera North. HEALING “In 2013, locals were killed, property destroyed, many others displaced, people did not appreciate each other but the society has healed and this market will bring people together again,” he said. According to Mr Alio, Rhamu is a cosmopolitan town and all clans have to live peacefully. “The town was zoned with each clan getting its own section but that has been buried and we have to move forward as Kenyans,” he said. To ensure the ghost of clan clashes is cast out completely, Mr Alio said each clan is getting an equal share of resources from the county government. SHARE RESOURCES “Locals fought over resources but we have a good plan on how we will equally share everything we get and this has helped in building bridges,” he said. The MCA challenged other areas still experiencing clan clashes to learn from Rhamu and coexist peacefully. All splinter markets in the town will be closed and all traders accommodated in the new market in efforts to foster inter-clan cohesion. “Our theme is celebrating peace, cohesion and building resilience among local communities in Mandera,” said Mr Maad. To allocate stalls among the members of the two clans, a committee of 20 members has been tasked with ensuring no clan feels short-changed in the process. HANDLE CONFLICTS Another market committee of 11 people will be handling any arising conflicts or displeasures by the traders and buyers at the market. The market is expected to diffuse the bad blood between the Garre and the Degodia, the two major clans dominating Mandera County. Other clans in Mandera include the Murule, Corner tribe and other non-Somali speaking groups. Among items to be sold at new market include textiles, foodstuffs, household utensils and cereals. “We have salons, a bus park and other amenities needed in such a market and we shall be opening it officially on Sunday,” said Mr Maad.  