Global Dance trio, comprising super producer Diplo, DJ Walshy Fire and DJ Jillionaire, better known as Major Lazer, brought the house down at Carnivore with a sensational performance that had the crowd mesmerised and on its feet, singing their songs word for word. The electronic dance music powerhouse won the crowd over with their recently released Afrobeats mix, and renditions of songs with popular Kenyan slang phrases as they waved the Kenyan flag on stage, paying homage to their African roots. The trio were in Kenya as part of a broader Africa tour which has taken them to South Africa, Malawi, Nigeria and Uganda. During the concert, Tuborg, the main sponsors, launched their campaign ‘Tuborg Open’ which endorses the power of an open spirit and encourages youth to be more inquisitive and open to the opportunities the world has to offer through sharing experiences with others and breaking mainstream boundaries. “We believe in being a culturally relevant and youth-centric brand and will do our part in supporting the growth of local music talent in Kenya,” stated Renee Kamau, Tuborg Marketing Manager. It was a night to remember for the hundreds of fans who thronged the Carnivore grounds on Saturday evening as the electronic trio thrilled the audience with a blend of local and international tunes. They 'worked up' the crowd with their bass beats of electro-music which filled up the air till morning with the crowd still on their feet dancing to the music. The Tuborg-sponsored event also offered fans interactive session at an open center where they enjoyed games and received giveaways. Tuborg was part of this as they embody a rich history of introducing and supporting the integration of new music genres and artists into new markets. The group, who have previously collaborated with MØ and Justin Bieber on massive hits, will use a beat that they created for Tuborg, which was released in April 2017, as the basis for each collaboration which will celebrate diverse music styles. And it’s this explorative and international spirit which united the brand with Major Lazer and was the inspiration behind the Tuborg beat. ‘Crafting one single beat to work for three ways with distinct sounds was a great creative process for us’ says DJ and Producer Walshy Fire. ‘This project allows us to broaden our spectrum with places and people that we usually don’t get a chance to work with, as well as have those people come into our world and working with us in our environment.’ ‘Going into these markets is a whole brand new experience for us’ added DJ and Producer Jillionaire. ‘So it’s just really about trying to learn something from them, about what they’re doing and to see how we can incorporate that into the music that we’re making with them, joining forces to do something that’s much bigger. It’s really cultural immersion in its purest form.’ DJ and Producer, Diplo hopes the collaborations will inspire people. He said, ‘We know that great things happen when people are open to new influences and sounds. Hopefully we’ll inspire music fans to be open, explore more, and be inspired by new cultures.’   