Former Kenya Power (KP) company secretary Beatrice Meso and former head of supply chain John Ombui were yesterday arraigned in court over the disappearance of crucial documents that were to be used in the prosecution of senior managers in a graft case. But Ms Meso, Mr Ombui and Ms Ruth Oyile were not required to plead to the charges after the police asked the court for more time to investigate the three. The prosecution told the court that the three were arrested on Monday and they needed at least seven days to conduct investigations. Senior Principal Magistrate Kennedy Cheruiyot, however, rejected the application to detain the suspects as the police complete investigations. He said there was nothing compelling to continue holding the three and in his view, the police needed the former KP employees to accompany them to their former offices to retrieve some documents. Mr Cheruiyot ruled that they deposit a cash bail of Sh300,000 each to secure their release. The court warned that their bail would be cancelled if they are found to have interfered with the investigations. The magistrate ordered the accused to report to the investigating officer today and tomorrow in order to visit the KP offices in Nairobi. They will also accompany the investigating officer to the same office on Monday and Wednesday next week. According to the prosecution, the accused might have caused the disappearance of crucial documents, including tender documents, which were used in the procurement of transformers that turned out to be faulty. They will be charged with conspiracy to defeat justice. Through lawyers Migos Ogamba and Roger Sagana, they were not opposed to deferment of the plea, but were opposed to the detention of the former employees. Mr Ogamba said the documents existed when Ms Meso and Mr Ombui and 14 others suspects were charged on July 16. The prosecution, on the other hand, said they suspect the documents went missing between the period the accused were arrested and charged. The case will be mentioned on November 1.   Kenya Power has also been holding media engagements across the country.