Governor Okoth Obado travelled to Migori County on Saturday, for the first time after more than a month at Nairobi's Industrial Area Remand Prison. Mr Obado was detained for investigations into the murder of his pregnant girlfriend Sharon Otieno, who was a student of Rongo University. He was granted freedom on October 24 on a Sh5 million cash bail. PEACE, UNITY The governor arrived in Migori hours after issuing a statement at his Lavington home in Nairobi, in which he thanked the High Court "for listening to my request to grant me bail" In his county, Mr Obado was driven straight to Upper Hill Seventh Day Adventist Church, located near the county headquarters, where he sought prayers from the clergy. Although his arrival was not much publicised, residents who learned about it trooped to the church to catch a glimpse of the county chief. "Pray for me because I am in a difficult situation, and remain united and peaceful," Mr Obado told the congregation. In compliance with bond terms, Mr Obado did not mention the Rongo University student whose murder caused him to be arrested and charged at the Milmani High Court, alongside several other people. The governor also avoided talking about the circumstances under which the student was abducted and killed. RADIUS County government employees and other residents hang around Mr Obado during the few hours he spent at the church. Millicent Anyango, a primary school teacher, said, "I wanted to see how he looks after his life in remand prison. He looks stable but weak emotionally." The county boss left the church soon after he was prayed for. It is not clear where he will spend the night because his Rapogi home in Uriri Sub-county is within the 20-kilometre radius that the court prohibited him from going over. The court ordered that he stay at least 20 kilometres away from the boundary with Homa Bay County - the home county of Ms Otieno, within which she was abducted and killed.   Judge says court at liberty to cancel bail if conditions are breached.