President Kenyatta and First Lady Margaret Kenyatta have sent condolences to the family of the former Maendeleo ya Wanawake chairperson Jane Kiano, who died in Nairobi on Friday. Retired President Daniel Moi and his son Gideon Moi, who is the Baringo Senator, also sent their condolences. Ms Kiano died aged 74 at the Nairobi Hospital after a long battle with cancer. The Head of State noted that Ms Kiano had played an important role in advancing women’s rights and justice in the country. “Our thoughts and prayers are with her family and friends. May her soul Rest in Peace,” he said. MENTORED WOMEN The First Lady said that the late Kiano had mentored many women and girls. “We honour her legacy as a trailblazer and a champion for women’s empowerment in the region. Jane Kiano was a mentor to many women and girls,” she said. Ms Kiano was the wife of Dr Julius Gikonyo Kiano, a former Cabinet minister and the first MP for Kangema Constituency in Murang’a County. In his message, retired President Moi said Mrs Kiano proved that women were capable of sound leadership. On his part, Baringo senator Gideon Moi said: “I have learnt with deep sorrow the passing on of Mrs Jane Kiano. She will be remembered for being at the forefront in supporting women and girl child empowerment at a time when many shied away because it was a male-dominated society," said Gideon. EQUAL OPPORTUNITY He termed her a trailblazer who belonged to a league that believed in equal opportunity for all genders and because of her efforts, women have made great strides. "Mrs Kiano's resilience, kindness and beliefs of a just society should be emulated by all Kenyans," he said. The Cabinet Secretary for Public Service Prof Margaret Kobia also sent her condolences. Prof Kobia said Ms Kiano will be remembered for her contribution to women’s welfare and rights promotion throughout her life, having led Maendeleo ya Wanawake from 1971 to 1984. WOMEN'S RIGHTS “As the ministry in charge of women’s rights promotion we are mourning the loss of one of our foremost trailblazers in women rights movement in Kenya. On behalf of the women fraternity of Kenya and the Ministry of Public Service Youth and Gender Affairs, I wish to send our condolences to her family,” Prof Kobia noted. Kangema MP Mututi Kigano described her as a patriot who had improved maternal healthcare and education in the area. “She worked hard to improve maternal health in this area as ensuring that children received quality education. We are deeply saddened by her death,” said the MP. Ms Kiano also served as a commissioner in the National Cohesion and Integration Commission, created after the deadly 2007/8 post-election violence.   Ms Kiano was the widow of former Cabinet minister Julius Gikonyo Kiano.