These seven events in Nairobi will guarantee that you will kick off Mashujaa Day in style! HATUA ALBUM LAUNCH James Gogo the, founder and leader of Gogo Simo band, will officially launch his new album titled Hatua at Alliance Francaise Gardens on October 19. The album will be his fourth and he says it has something for the young and old, jazz or hip hop, R&B and Salsa, Benga and Lingala fans. TARRUS RILEY AT KICC Jamaican legend and one of the biggest acts coming out of Jamaica, Tarrus Riley, is set to grace the stage on Nairobi’s soils once again. He was last here in April 2017. On October 20, he will be performing at KICC backed by the Black Soil Band. THRIFT SOCIAL PRESENTS BURNA BOY Thrift Social’s official line up for their #AthleisureEdition sees Barak Jacuzzi, DJ Coco em, MixMaster Lenny, Vallerie Muthoni and Wakadinali performing live alongside Burna Boy and his widely successful “Life On The Outside” tour on October 20 from 2pm at Uhuru Gardens. The event also creates an opportunity for fashion enthusiasts to connect with creatives within the fashion industry in Nairobi and world-renowned design duo Art Comes First, one of the most interesting and creative projects in menswear globally, as you flaunt your “flyest drip”. Also, get to shop from amazing vendors, and dance throughout the day. The festival provides a platform for creativity and the exploration of art, music and fashion, while giving inspiration for innovators in the creative industry. Thrift Social, which also seeks to shade a light on charity by remembering the less fortunate in society, will be backed by NRG Radio, MoSound Events and MOOKH. MOTOWN IN NAIROBI Motown in Nairobi will be celebrating six years of musical performance and just all round great entertainment that reminisce on music that was produced and released by the Motown Record Label from the 1960s through to the 1990s. There will also be Kenyan live performers on the night such as Chris Bittok, June Gachui, Ciano Maimba, Kaz, Silayio, Noel Nderitu, Viola Karuri, Patricia Kihoro and Manasseh Shalom to crown the night at Karen Gardens on October 19. INSIDE THIS SKULL Soffie Nduta of TANOSA teams up with Teller 254 of Heat Entertainment for the fourth edition of Inside This Skull on October 20. The outdoor event will include live musical performances, poems and spoken word presentations at Garden City from 2pm. Band Sick, Ice Tonic, Jairus Mola, Muthaka, Stom Al-Madusi, Njiwa, MC Manuh, Saisi, Miano, Kerry, Michelle, Hadithi, Mathai, Dream Muziki, Vinky Poet, Likizo, Wambui Reiah, MC Mike bile Mic, and Mbula will make the list of performers for this afternoon-till-early-night event. Food and drinks will be sold at an affordable price at this event that is a family-friendly affair at the mall’s amphitheatre. ADUMA Aduma brings deejays One Down, Kori – K, Monroe Marcus, and St Michael Music to put together the best of African house music designed from all across the globe at Captain’s Terrace on October 20. Drawing its inspiration from the word 'Adumu' which is a traditional dance in the Maasai culture; the Maasai form a circle as they wait to jump up and defy gravity as they dance in. This event hopes to achieve this fete by playing good tunes that make you dance and experience true euphoria amongst your crew. THE WAREHOUSE CONCEPT W/ YVES LAROCK With Nairobi getting more and more vibrant, and people all around the city seeking the next experience, a one of a kind event experience will be bringing sounds of the world closer to home with two International guest deejays rocking the house. Yves Larock - a Swiss legend with an Anthem that's moved Nations for years - and Chris Taylor - a South African DJ/Producer guaranteed to shake the floor – will be joined by a local line-up of deejays to make The Ballroom a dance fest on October 20.    