Mombasa County Commissioner Evans Achoki has said assured residents of a safer and secure environment with an increase in the number of police posts in the region. He said that the police have been working together with leaders from all sub-counties to ensure that the whole county is safe. He was speaking Saturday during the Mashujaa Day celebrations at the Tononoka grounds. “We have worked with leaders from Changamwe, Likoni, Jomvu and Kisauni to ensure there are no insecurity cases,” he said. He thanked the public, elders and the youth for supporting the government in fighting insecurity in malls, clubs and residential areas. “It is due to the adequate security that Mombasa has hosted the Skål International Congress that is ongoing,” he said. MORE OFFICERS To ensure that there is even more safety, the administrator said that there will be new police posts as well as additional police officers where they are inadequate. “This move is to ensure that every corner of the county is protected. We will improve on surveillance and patrols to maintain peace, security and order in the county,” he said Likoni MP Mishi Mboko said due to joint efforts and collaboration with human rights groups, civil societies and local leaders, insecurity has been suppressed. “Various youths who were initially a threat in some areas have reformed after we took them to driving schools and colleges. The youth have become self-reliant and no longer have to indulge in crime,” she said. Mr Achoki, at the same time, condemned mob justice where people take the law into their own hands and lynch suspects. MOB JUSTICE He said those administering mob justice are doing so illegally and urged the residents to report to the police in case they apprehend a suspect. “Those who administer mob justice are doing it illegally. You would rather call the police and have the culprit or suspects arrested instead of lynching them. It is not right for you to beat up the person to death,” he said. This was in reference to an incident in Mtopanga where a student and his cousin were lynched on suspicion of stealing a motorcycle. “No one is allowed to take the life of another. I rebuke all those who take law into their own hands and kill someone with no proof [that he or she is a criminal],” Mr Achoki said. Kisauni MP Ali Mbogo said by working together with the police and the county commissioner, areas like Migodoroni in Kisauni which were initially known to have criminal gangs are now safe. “The only place we are working on is Vikwatani which will soon be secure,” he said while urging the residents to be patient as this is dealt with.   The 79th Skal conference will be held for four days in Mombasa.