Fahim Kassim who recently won the silver and bronze medals in two separate international events in South Korea last two months will be among those to represent various Coast clubs in the Korea Ambassador Cup Taekwondo Championship to be held at Kasarani in Nairobi this weekend. Six-year-old Fahim, who won silver medal in the 2018 Jeju Korea and bronze in Seongnam Open International Taekwondo Junior championships, is one of the four Mtwapa Elite Academy pupils that will participate in the Nairobi event. Others from the same school are nine-year-old Evans Wale, Dickson Washira (11) and Kitsao Kalele (7) who are to feature in sparring and forms categories. Their coach Kalele Kahindi said they have prepared well for the Korea Ambassador Cup. “We’ve prepared well in good time for this event and I’ve high hopes on my boys to win both the sparring and forms categories and return home with medals,” said Kahindi. Coast High Kicks also confirmed that they had entered four participants, Edward Steven (Finweight), Bingo Mwaveka (Middleweight), Hamisi Iddi and Emmanuel Karisa (Flyweight). The Kadzuma team will be represented by two women Daniella Nabisino (Bantamweight) and Belinda Muhati (Featherweight). Team Mombasa County will be represented by 45 participants, 19 boys, 14 girls and 12 men. The men's team comprises of Hassan Juma, James Kyalo, Ali Omar, George Kalama, Charo Shaban, Godfrey Baraza, Muhammed Hassan, Akidadi Fasi, Joseph Otieno, Jackson Mwaiseghe, Mkoya Shadrack and Hatibu Mwashetani. The boys are Muhammed Kisira, Daniel Owino, Francis Nathan, Kevin Mula, Michael Nangaka, Juma Rashid, David Michael, Lensly, Glenorial Omondi, Kennedy Onyango, Mwinyi Bakari, Paul Chengo, Alex Ojoe, Said Matano, Simon Masaka, Aaron Kimonge, Ali Omar, Abbas Muhammed and Emmanuel Odhiambo. The girls are Salama Rashid, Sylvia Mnene, Fortinata Marura, Ruth Muthoni, Abigail Anzazi, Grace Wangeshi, Maryann Katindi, Mirian Muthoni, Marian Mwadime, Afra Mugambi, Zubeda Abubakar, Mulunde Joy, Dlorence Njambi and Victoria Odhiambo. The Coast teams are expected to leave Mombasa on Friday.  