Road agencies have disowned the 63-kilometre Londiani-Forternan road, barely two weeks after 56 people perished in a grisly night accident on the stretch. The Kenya National Highways Authority (KeNHA) says the road that critics say was poor constructed and lacks signage is under the Kenya Rural Roads Authority (KeRRA), a claim the latter has rejected. “The road is under KeRRA. KeNHA only rehabilitated the road a couple of years ago when the road was still under KeNHA. However, since reclassification, the road was placed under KeRRA. It is currently under performance based contract,” KeNHA communication manager Charles Njogu said in response to our queries regarding claims that the road was substandard. KeRRA on the other hand said the road is under KeNHA and that none of its roads has been placed under performance contracting. “This road (Londiani-Forternan-Muhoroni) is under the purview of KeNHA. As it is now, it has not been vested to us yet. I do not have any information on its contractual agreement,” Catherine Butaki, KeRRA’s head of public relations told the Business Daily. The ownership row adds a new twist to the road that is fast becoming a death trap for night travellers as most sections are unmarked. Performance-based contracting allows road agencies to hand over the repairs, maintenance and general management to a private contractor. The buck passing comes amidst criticism from the local leaders including Kipkelion West MP Hillary Kosgey and his Belgut counterpart Nelson Koech who have blamed the Chinese contractor for handing the government an incomplete road. Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji had also called for investigation into the accident that claimed 56 lives and injured tens of others. “The road is incomplete, has no signage or markings. It is dangerous. Our disaster response is also poor,” Mr Koech said. Last year, another night accident killed six people along the road with steep hills and sharp bends after a 62-seater bus lost control and rammed a private saloon car near Tunel. Apart from signage, the road is poorly lit at night and has steep shoulders especially on exit roads, making it difficult for motorists joining or exiting. Scanty detail is available on the construction and the management of the road that is a key link between Kericho and Kisumu counties and the latest denial by the two authorities that take the lion’s share of the Road Maintenance Levy Fund makes a bad case worse. This year alone, KeNHA is set to receive Sh23.7 billion while KeRRA will be funded to the tune of Sh12.4 billion from the levy controlled by the Kenya Roads Board.   The 67-seater bus is said to have veered off the road while descending a steep slope.