Owners of a building that was launched by then Housing Minister Soita Shitanda in 2013 have been served with a notice to bring it down in the next two weeks. The National Environment Management Authority (Nema) and the Water Resources Management Authority on Friday issued a 14-day notice to occupants of Seefar Apartments at Nyayo Highrise estate. The notice said the building was built on riparian land and that the management should present itself at Nema offices tomorrow. However, Seefar management doubts the authenticity of the letter asking tenants to vacate the building as it does not have an official stamp from Nema. SH6 MILLION If the notice is genuine, it means that more than 300 families will be rendered homeless. Some families started moving out yesterday. Documents seen by the Sunday Nation showed that a two-bedroom house costs Sh6 million while a three-bedroom house goes for Sh8 million. Tenants pay between Sh38,000 and Sh45,000 per month. The building is owned by Edermann Property and was constructed by Chinese professionals. The firm has many other properties across the country. Three years ago, the Water Management Authority and Nema had, in a letter to the Seefar management, said they were satisfied with how the building had been put up. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT “The repairs were carried out as per the designs earlier submitted to us to a satisfactory level. We recommend that a film of red soil be overlaid on the rehabilitated section completely covering the gabion boxes,” read the WRMA letter to the firm’s management. On its side, Nema issued the management with an environmental impact assessment licence that approved the construction of the building. According to the management, construction of the apartment, which cost Sh950 million, started in 2012. Mr John Rajwayi, who is the manager of the property, said they were issued with all the documentation before they started construction. “We had all the documents with us before we started construction,” he said.  