“Come to the game and come early, we’ve guaranteed security for you,” was Football Kenya Federation (FKF) president Nick Mwendwa’s clarion call ahead of Sunday's crucial 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) Group “F” qualifier against Ethiopia at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani. Security forces drawn from General Service Unit (GSU), regular police and National Youth Service (NYS) will be on the ground in numbers to maintain order from the moment the gates open at 9am. “By 2pm the gates will be closed, only 50,000 fans will be allowed access to the stadium as per the two-thirds rule on stadium access by Caf and Fifa,” Mwendwa said during the presser held at MISC Kasarani. Flanked by Lawrence Kisini from GSU and Kasarani Deputy Officer Commanding Police Division (OCPD) Ezekiel Omollo, Mwendwa said fans will be issued with free VIP and regular tickets on first come first serve basis upon entrance. “When tickets get finished we shall close the stadium, those who will not have accessed the stadium by 2pm will watch the match from the screen outside the stadium,” he said adding. “The general public will access the stadiums through Gates, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 while VVIPs and VIPs through gates 4 and 5, terraces 1 and 24 have been reserved for VVIP and terrace 2 for VIP.”   Kasarani deputy OCPD Ezekiel Omollo said security personnel will be spread across Thika Superhighway to control traffic from the city as huge numbers are expected to stream in the stadium. “We ask you to comply with the orders all the way from Roysambu and from GSU to the stadium,” urged Omollo. Fans have been warned against parking cars along the highway and outside the stadium. Kasarani gymnasium and parking area three have been reserved for the same. “There will be NYS officers manning the parking lot throughout. When the game starts, no car will leave until the end of the game to avoid cases of cars being vandalized or stolen. “We’ve good plans for the game and you can come with your family. On health safety, we shall have 500 places for first aid. Fire engine will be in place as well as GSU, Dog Unit and mounted forces on the ground, anyone who causes trouble will be arrested on the spot and will be arraigned in court on Monday,” Mwendwa outlined. STADIUM ACCESS PEDESTRIANS: Through Gates, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 VVIP, VIPs: Through gates 4 and 5, SITTING ARRANGEMENTS VVIP: Terraces 1 and 24 VIP: Terrace 2   The Frenchman had served FKF with a month notice that was due to expire on October 15.