The trial of former Kenya Power senior managers, among them former managing director Ben Chumo and his successor Dr Ken Tarus, failed to start on Monday after a key document went missing. The case has been adjourned to Friday after the court gave the prosecutor time to find the missing Energy Regulatory (ERC) report on the purchase of faulty transformers. Senior Assistant DPP Alexander Muteti told chief magistrate Felix Kombo that even though he had photocopies of the report, he need the original ERC report to go ahead with the trial. Mr Muteti's boss, Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji has already ordered for "investigations into circumstances under which documents meant for prosecution of the KPLC corruption cases went missing. Mr Haji said the documents were under the custody of Kenya Power. OTHER SUSPECTS Other persons facing charges are Ms Beatrice Meso, the former company secretary, Mr Joshua Mutua, the general manager commercial services, Abubakar Swaleh, general manager human resource and administration, Mr Samuel Ndirangu, the general manager ICT, Mr Stanley Mutwiri, general manager infrastructure development, Mr Benson Muriithi, general manager network management, Mr Peter Mwicigi, general manager regional co-ordination and Mr John Ombui, the head of supply chain. The managers are accused of procuring substandard transformers that caused Kenya Power a Sh408 million loss. They are also accused of conspiring to commit an economic crime. The charge sheet states that on diverse dates between August 3, 2013 and June 12, 2018, they procured transformers worth Sh408,533,221 from Muwa Trading. They have further denied charges of abuse of office and failure to comply with procurement laws. Also in court was Mr James Njenga, a director of the company. The court further heard that the senior Kenya Power managers aided Muwa Trading company to fraudulently acquire Sh202 million by supplying substandard transformers.   How electricity supplier exposes consumers high bills.