“No, Mama Steph, go away. I want Mama Sabby to read to me!” These words from my 3-year-old daughter, Marty, level me like the most withering insult. Lately, her extreme favouritism for my spouse, Sabrina, has reached new heights. She even gets mad if I peck Sabrina on the cheek or place my arm around her seat as she drives. I distinctly remember rebuffing my dad’s affections and interfering with his attempts to kiss or hug my mom when I was a kid. It makes me wonder: Am I the dad in this family? At one time, I might have delighted in the queerness of being “daddyfied”, but I never wanted to be a woman more than when I became a mom. I wanted to be Marty’s first go-to for all things, but I’m starting to think there isn’t room for two on the mighty mommy throne. Sabrina is Marty’s biological mother. She gestated her for nine months and breastfed her for nine more, so their bond had a built-in physicality. Did that make it superior? DIMINISHED STATUS Peggy Drexler, a research psychologist and the author of Our Fathers, Ourselves: Daughters, Fathers and the Changing American Family, said that while favouritism may hurt in ways unique to non-biological moms in same-sex relationships, it has nothing to do with biology and it actually signals developmental progress. “When a child plays favourites — which is totally normal, by the way — it’s usually an early and familiar way of asserting independence and practicing decision-making. It’s a positive sign of cognitive, and emotional, growth.” She even suggested that it indicates Marty’s confidence in my love for her: “She feels secure in your love — that she can be mean to you, reject you, and you’ll still love her back.” Despite Drexler’s edict to repeat this to myself as many times as I have to, I can’t shake the feeling that the hierarchy created by Sabrina’s biological link to our daughter somehow diminishes my status, in our household and in the world. Clark University’s Abbie Goldberg, the pioneering scholar on LGBT families, who was the lead author of a study published in the Journal of Marriage and Family in 2008 titled “Perceptions of Children's Parental Preferences in Lesbian Two-Mother Households,” said that her research results indicate that impressions of favouritism changed, even disappeared, over time. But, she said: “Non-bio moms often feel invisible, like they don’t have the language, or the cultural visibility, for their roles,” particularly in contexts, like unsupportive families, religious settings or paediatricians’ offices.” REJECTION The erasure that happens when someone asks questions like “Who’s the biological mom?” or “How did you pick your donor?” can intensify a non-biological mom’s sense of rejection, according to Deborah Glazer, a psychoanalyst who specializes in LGBT issues. “The non-bio mom becomes this kind of hybrid role that’s very difficult to recognize,” she said. “She’s not the father, but not a specific type of mother, which can assault her sense of adequacy.” Glazer said Marty’s favouritism very likely extends from the merging that happened when Sabrina was nursing her. Fathers, she said, are socialised to accept their position outside that early dyad, “but women aren’t, so their exclusion from it can be very painful.” WHERE IS MY DADDY Worse yet, around the same time Marty started actively rejecting me in favour of Sabrina, she started saying, “Where’s my daddy?” and more cuttingly, “I want my daddy.” A few times, she even tested out calling me “Daddy.” While she seems to understand and accept that Sabrina is her mom, she often seems unsure about how to classify me. I sometimes wonder if her rejection of me stems from a longing for a dad. When I put the question to Glazer, she said: “At this age, it’s more neutral than the way you’re hearing it. It’s really important,” she stressed, “to differentiate what’s the kid’s emotion and what’s yours.” Luckily, we’re neighbours to another two-mom family in our building, so Marty gets some exposure to families that look like ours. We also have a good roster of books that portray all kinds of family configurations, such as Todd Parr’s The Family Book, Suzanne Lang and Max Lang’s Families, Families, Families! and Dr. Stacey Bromberg and Dr. Joe Taravella’s My Mommies and Me, which all the experts I spoke with said will help liberate Marty from the belief that all families consist of a mom and dad. I’m still unsure how to manage — and balance out — Marty’s preference for Sabrina, which feels like a daily punch in the gut. SHARED TIME When Julia Yeary, a clinical social worker who has extensive experience working with young children and their families, asked whether Sabrina spends more time with Marty than she does with me, I confessed that my work hours keep me away through dinnertime often. Marty may prefer Sabrina, in part, she said, because of the extra time they share together. As the director of Military Family Projects at Zero to Three, a non-profit in Washington that seeks to ensure that all babies and toddlers have a strong start in life, Yeary has thought a lot about how to bridge the gaps between parents who aren’t physically present and their children. She suggested that I FaceTime with Marty during dinner or record a message to her that Sabrina can play before she goes to bed. She also suggested adopting the Flat Stanley project that military families have been doing for years. I could take one of Marty’s teddy bears, for example, and send pictures or videos of me with teddy at my office or on the subway. “It helps keep you in the mind of the child and the child in the mind of you,” she said. NO MORE FAKE TEARS And both Drexler and Yeary advised me to stop my usual response of fake crying when Marty rejects me. That response, Yeary said, is “shaming,” and it’s important to recognise Marty’s feelings while remaining steadfast in my role as her mother. Yeary also emphasised that I ought to let go of the expectation that my relationship with Marty should look exactly like Sabrina’s. “There’s a lot of research out there that demonstrates that children can have a special bond with each of their parents, but it might not look the same,” she said. “If we’re looking for identical attachments, it’s not going to happen. Parents are different and children benefit from different kinds of parents.” Next time Marty pushes me away, Yeary suggested I say: “'I can see that you would prefer Mama Sabby, but I’m here right now, so I’m the one who will read to you. I see that you’re mad about that, but it’s OK, I am still going to read to you because I love you.'” It also shows constancy, she said, that I am attuned to her feelings and she can count on me. But above all, she joked: “No more fake tears.”     Ellen DeGeneres has been named the most powerful gay celebrity in the US in Out magazine's annual Power List poll.