A Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education student from Gaichanjiru Boys High School has collapsed and died. The student died during an entertainment show at the institution. Murang’a County Police Commander Mohammed Farah said the school administration informed the police that the student, Roy Ngahu, collapsed while dancing during an entertainment session. He was pronounced dead on arrival at Gaichanjiru Mission Hospital on Saturday night. The police boss, however, said they were waiting for the autopsy report to establish the cause of the death. CARDIAC ARREST “The school management told the police that the student fell down during the entertainment session but we are waiting for the post-mortem results to determine the cause of death,” said Mr Farah adding that the preliminary results indicated that the boy died of cardiac arrest. Murang’a County Director of Education Victoria Mulili said they were keen to get the post-mortem report to ascertain the cause of the student's death. “Although the initial report from the doctors indicate that the student died of cardiac arrest, we are keen on getting the autopsy report to know what transpired,” Ms Mulili said. Mr Daniel Ngahu, the boy’s, father claimed that the manner in which the school handled the incident raised eyebrows and called for speedy investigations to reveal the cause of the death. TRANSFER THE BODY Mr Ngahu said that he rushed to the school after being informed of his son’s death, only to be asked by the school management to transfer the body from Gaichanjiru Mission Hospital mortuary. “The school was in hurry to have the body   removed from Gaichanjiru Mission Hospital mortuary which is located near the institution,” said Mr Ngahu. “I don’t know what the school is trying to hide, speedy investigations must be conducted to unravel the mystery behind my son’s death,” he told the Nation on Sunday. He described his son as an average student. Mr Ngahu said that the untimely death came as he was processing documents to enable the deceased travel to the US for further studies next year.  