SWITCHING FROM CANE TO CABBAGE I'm a sugarcane farmer and I want to shift to cabbage growing. Kindly guide me on how to start and which variety can do better in Migori County. John Otieno There are many cabbage varieties and they include Gloria F1, Riana F1, Copenhagen market, Golden acre, Queen F1, Serena F1 and others. You can try Gloria F1. Propagation and establishment: Cabbage is propagated through seeds. They are sowed in the nursery bed and later transplanted after 3-4 weeks to rows 60-75cm apart and 45-60cm within the rows. Wider spacing (75x60cm) is usually adopted for late maturing cultivars (up to 130 days) and closer spacing (60x45cm) for early maturing cultivars (up to 55 days). Head size can be regulated by plant density. Direct seeding followed by thinning is not normally successful in the tropics. Seed rate: Use 300-500g/ha depending on germination percentage. Before transplanting, water nursery bed thoroughly 3-4 hours in advance to minimise damages during lifting of the seedlings. Preferable, remove seedlings separately, never pull as this may damage feeding roots. Fertilisers: Cabbage is a heavy feeder of nitrogen and potassium. Organic matter, phosphatic and potasic fertilisers should be applied before transplanting and dressing of N fertilisers applied about four weeks from transplanting and three weeks thereafter. Rates are 5-10g/plant (185-370kg/ha) of CAN and 200kg/ha DSP. Cabbage benefits from heavy doses of well decomposed organic manure but there is need for balanced application of NPK. Excess nitrogen application alone results in loose puffy heads, which do not store well. Weed control: Cabbage is shallow rooted and care should be taken not to damage roots in the field as this would encourage entry of fungi and bacteria. Cabbage is also a poor competitor of weed thus it should be protected from weeds. Avoid excessive weeding as it may lower yields due to more water loss through evapotranspiration and root damage. Mulching: It may be beneficial in weed control, among other advantages like helping in water retention. Irrigation: Irrigation should be done whenever necessary. It is important to note that cabbage is relatively shallow-rooted, thus may need regular watering if rainfall is not adequate. Critical water requirement stage for cabbage is at head formation. Carol Mutua, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. **** I NEED 10KGS OF PINUS PATULA SEEDLINGS Please, can I get 10kg of pinus patula seeds? Mercy Chebey Pinus patula seeds can be obtained from Kenya Forestry Research Institute (Kefri), Muguga station. Please contact 0722285923 or 0720143776. Peter Caleb Otieno, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. **** ADVICE TO FARM ON 450 ACRES I would like to know if you the experts can assist me in developing my family owned land in Kwale. The total acreage is 450 with enough water resource. It is a virgin land with natural grass and scattered mango, coconut and cashew nut trees. We are looking for a partner who can develop this land by growing any crops that have high yields and attractive market prices. Our idea is to grow on part of the land herbs and spices that can be exported. Also, crops that we can add value after processing for exports. Sudhir This requires a horticulture expert to sit down with you and discuss various agribusiness ventures. The best you can find for consultation is on this email risamuk@gmail.com. Peter Caleb Otieno, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. **** FISH TO KEEP IN KAKAMEGA I am an upcoming farmer in Kakamega County. I am interested in aquaculture, kindly advise me which fish to go for. Isaac Shitoti Western has high potential for aquaculture since the region is endowed with natural water sources like rivers, streams, wetlands and springs, among others. Furthermore, the relatively warmer temperature found in this area makes it possible to grow fish and harvest within the recommended time-frame. You can go for both Nile tilapia and African catfish which have shown good growth in the areas. Alternatively, you can opt for monoculture of either tilapia or catfish. Market surveys in western Kenya have shown the presence of both the two species being sold by fish vendors. Before you start, I advise you visit the fisheries department at Kakamega County to seek services on site selection, pond construction, acquisition of fingerlings and management practices. Alternatively, you can seek these services elsewhere but ensure professionalism. For more clarification, write to akidivaaquafish@gmail.com Alex Akidiva, AgroScience Park Fish farm, Egerton University. **** ZERO-GRAZING EXPERT I will be very grateful if you could supply the contact of a zero-grazing expert. There are a group of managers on a tea estate who are interested to learn about zero-grazing for their private farms. If an expert could give a talk and share an Ms Power Point presentation and offer answers to questions asked, this would be of great help. Grete Davey (Mrs) Behind every profitable dairy farm is good management, quality cows and optimum cow comfort. A zero-grazing unit (housing) is a key component of cow comfort system that has a lot of implication on their health, productivity and convenience in carrying out routine dairy farm operations. A comfortable barn depends on its set up, construction and hygiene maintenance. Engage me directly on akatchf@theudder.co.ke to discuss possible ways of how to work together on this and trainings on other critical dairy management subjects. Felix Akatch Opinya, Department of Animal Science, Egerton University. **** SNAIL FARMING I am Pauline Muthoni, and I am really interested in knowing more on snail farming. I would also like to get the contact of Michael Muchilwa. The process of raising snails specifically for flesh, slime, eggs or other economic uses is known as heliculture. Very few individuals are making a fortune from snail farming, despite being a very lucrative venture with enormous benefits, huge market potential that still remains untapped both locally and internationally. Talk to Michael Muchilwa on 0782199521. Felix Akatch Opinya, Department of Animal Science, Egerton University. **** TOMATO/MANGO VALUE ADDITION Do you have a contact of a farmer group or farmer who does value addition on mangoes or tomatoes? Bernice Jane Kambiti East Mango Farmers Association from Murang’a sub-county does mango as well as tomato value addition. Karurumo Self-Help Group of Embu County also does the same on mangoes. Kwa Kyai Rural Sacco in Kibwezi, Makueni County does tomato value addition for export. You can pay them a visit for further engagements. Kindly contact Hamisi Mutulu, an official of Kwa Kyai Rural Sacco on 0710863187 or Brian Bartes, the Ketchup Project county representative 0702877343. Ruth Imbahale, Department of Dairy, Food Science and Technology, Egerton University.   For questions or enquiries on agribusiness, marketing, logistics, processing, innovation, and technology? Send your questions to: satnation@ke.nationmedia.com