We have a social-emotional crisis brewing. The list of horrifying issues that we face is daunting. The gruesome headlines are testimony to the horrible state of affairs. Undeniably, our learners are not shielded from the psychological effects of these crises. All too often, we receive reports of students involved in horrendous incidents: Sexual abuse. Arson. Violence. Drug and substance abuse. Suicide. Social media rants. Dysfunctional families. Violence. Homicide. The list is long. CROSS-CUTTING Two teenage students are facing murder charges after they reportedly massacred fellow students. In one of the incidents, a 17-year-old stabbed another boy in the neck with a knife as they fought over a barmaid in Tharaka-Nithi County. In the other, a 16 year-old Standard Eight boy stabbed a fellow teenager in the chest in Kericho as they quarrelled over the ownership of a phone. Undoubtedly, the two cases of homicide indicate a lack of anger management skills and disregard for the sanctity of human life. This seems to be a cross-cutting vice. Wicked behaviour has become common. Political leaders, corporate executives, celebrities, clerics and other icons face prosecution for their indiscretions. LIFELONG In the modern-day societal setting, learners get exposed to assault, homicide, abuse and other social vices through print, electronic and social media. As psychologists would explain, this exposure to horrid situations has a negative effect on the learners. They easily suffer disillusionment and the risk of maladjustment is high. However, psychologists promise us that it’s not all doom and gloom; we can fix the problem. We can incorporate the social and emotional learning component in the school system, an essential element for lifelong learning. UNWHOLESOME Mahatma Gandhi is quoted as saying that education should be a stepping-stone to knowledge and wisdom that helps the learner to find a purpose in life. Going by the foresight, an effective educational programme is desired — one that prepares a learner to pass school and life tests. From Kenyans’ debated on what constitutes an effective education programme, one thing is undeniable: Over the years, the education system has particularly been one-sided and, therefore, unwholesome. It has concentrated on the cognitive dimension, which aims at academic excellence. The non-academic component, which helps to build character, has been roundly ignored. EMPOWERED Education experts and psychologists accurately argue that a wholesome education requires that we offer our learners an all-round programme that incorporates the social and emotional competences at all levels. Research into the integration of social-emotional skills in the curriculum promises to promote a learning process that maximises the potential of learners to succeed in academics, as well as in life. With the competence-based curriculum set to be rolled out in January, luckily, this type of wholesome learning process has been envisioned. We aim to nurture our learners into ethical, engaged and empowered citizens. This is a desirable goal that will develop all-round learners who are knowledgeable, responsible, socially skilled, ethical, and emotionally intelligent. Then, they can overcome setbacks and make responsible decisions regarding their safety and that of others. Dr Njoroge is an information professional and stakeholder in the education sector.  