Vet Lab Sports Club’s pro Nelson Simwa was at his brilliant best as he fired a perfect seven under par round 65, to claim a first round lead as the third leg of the Safari Golf Tour got under way at Limuru Country Club course on Sunday. Simwa shot a bogey-less front nine which included birdies on the first, fourth and sixth. He followed that with a low 32 after picking up birdies on the 10th, 11th and 17th with an eagle three at the 15th though a bogey at the par four-13th spoiled what would have been bogey-free round. “It was a good opening round today where I only dropped one shot. Overall, I am happy with my performance, but I am aware of the work that needs to be done in the remaining rounds. I am confident that I can carry this form with me through the remaining three rounds,” he said. On the other hand, Greg Snow had a great chance of a first round lead having rolled in seven birdies until he dropped two shots both at the front nine. Opati meanwhile picked up birdies on the fourth, sixth and ninth and two more at the back nine’s 11th and 15th holes. A number of the country's elite amateurs are also participating in the event where Vet Lab’s Edwin Mudanyi and Kiambu’s Michael Karanga shot four under par 68 to tie for fourth place overall, with two juniors Taimur Malik of Windsor and Muthaiga’s Zubair Khan finishing on one over and four over par 73 and 76 respectively. Tuesday’s second round starts at 11am. The third leg event started with Saturday’s Pro-Am event at the same venue where Coast based Njuguna Ngugi and his team of amateurs Jeff Macharia, Edwin Guda, and Anthony Mwaura posted a total of 83 points with the pro posting 39 points, to win the first prize by the narrow margin of one point from the Ugandan pro Abbey Bagalana of amateurs Brad McAlister, David Waiganjo, and T. Kamau. Another Ugandan Pro, Philip Kasozi, and Limuru trio of Laureen Gibson, Mark Misumi and Wambui Gitonga finished third on 81 points. In the subsidiary, Limuru’s Robert Barua carded 38 points to beat men's winner James Mbui on countback. In the ladies section, Laureen Gibson won with 36 points ahead of Grace Kimeria on 31 points.   Snow has been enjoying an excellent form over the past six months.