Former international martial arts player, Vincent Wanyama Obisa has expressed his interest to vie for first Vice-President position in the forthcoming Kenya Karate Federation elections slated for November. “I urge the karate fraternity in the country to give me an opportunity to lead them as I have been proved and tested in the past as the chairman of Nairobi region,“ said Wanyama. Wanyama, who featured in the national team between 1985 and 1991, reiterated his commitment in flying karate to higher heights of glory by ensuring the counties are incorporated in his development strategies. “I want all the 47 counties to include karate as one of the disciplines in the inter-counties sports championships,” said Wanyama, who clinched a silver medal in the 1991 All African Games in Cairo, Egypt. He said his plan once elected, is to daft a proposal that would be handed to the council of governors to push for the inclusion of karate activities in the county budgets. “We can only have a successful inter-counties karate tournament if the county governments include the game in their annual sports calendar,” said Wanyama. Wanyama indicated that if elected, other priorities in his tenure would be to transform and turn-around the game of karate. “Top on my agenda is to align the federation constitution with the Sports Act, nurture talents and look for more sponsors,” he said. He said the karate fraternity has many lawyers, who would be contacted to form a committee to review the current constitution. “The current Karate Federation constitution is outdated and is not serving the interests of the game,” said Wanyama. At the same time, Wanyama said since karate is a disciplined game, he will work with the Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association to draft a document that would pave way for the posting of karate instructors in schools. “Apart from secondary schools, I will also make sure universities and colleges have a strong foundation of the game,” said Wanyama. Lack of sponsors has hampered the growth of the game and Wanyama said he will form a technical committee to spearhead the search of sponsors. “Rugby has official sponsors of national teams and the same can happen in karate with good management,” he said. On coaches, he said he will ensure they get international exposure by collaborating with the World Karate Federation and other bodies.  