They sat anxiously in a fairly attended courtroom in Mombasa as they awaited their judgment. At around 1pm on Thursday, Halima Adan, Ummulkheir Sadri Abdalla and Ms Khadija Abubakar Abdulkadir, who were facing terror charges, were acquitted. Chief Magistrate Evans Makori said the prosecution had failed to prove 20 terror-related charges the accused persons were facing. The release of the three came five days after widow of slain cleric Aboud Rogo, Hania Sagar, was also acquitted. WITNESSES The unfolding events have elicited questions in the prosecution of terror cases or suspects. The Nation has documented at least 10 cases of terror suspects, who have been released in Mombasa alone. An analysis by Nation established that inability by police to link the suspects with the offences, lack of witnesses to give testimony and prove membership to terror groups and weak evidence are among the loopholes in a majority of terror cases that have seen the suspects being acquitted. Other loopholes are poor handling of electronic items and articles allegedly recovered from the accused, poor chain of custody and prolonged time in extraction. PROSECUTION Failure to contact mobile services subscribers to present the content of conversations between the suspects and their alleged accomplices, and or to prove M-Pesa transactions, have also left the prosecution with no evidence to link the suspects with offences. In at least five cases familiar to Nation between last year to date, terror suspects have secured their freedom after the prosecution failed to prove terror charges against them. Among the cases are that of Nassir Abdallah Skanda, Hania Sagar Rogo, Sheikh Mohammed Khalid, Samuel Wanjala Wabwile alias Salim Mohamed, Abdirazak Salah Sala, Luul Ali Tahli, Nasteho Ali Tahli and Zamzam Abdallahi. Others are Mohamed Ibrahim Noor, Nargis Arafat Gulan, Mwanajuma Mweru Tayari and Saumu Ali Athman. They all faced terror related charges including being members of Al-Shabaab and possessing articles believed to be used in commission of terror activities. However, they were all acquitted. EVIDENCE For these charges to be proven, the prosecution must present evidence to show watching and distribution of videos and photos by the accused persons for the purposes of propagating and spreading the tentacles of terrorism under Al-Shabaab or any other terror group banner. Mr Makori notes that to connect one to be a member of a terror group or possessing articles like extreme literature for purposes of instigation of terror activities, the prosecution has to prove or show through circumstantial evidence that point membership or possession of articles for use is for instigation of terrorism. Also, he argues that for prosecution to successfully link an accused of terror groups, there must be a trend, for example; to show some form of association, camaraderie or training with the group a nexus with its leadership. COMMUNICATION “The link must show support for the operations of the group in the past, present or the future activities. The literature found must be connected to a targeted operation or sympathy with the operations of the group,” he says. He said it is imperative for the prosecution to show for what purposes are the materials found in possession of the accused, adding it’s not enough to just present the materials as evidence. In the case of Ummulkheir, Khadija and Adan, who were acquitted last week, the magistrate noted that nothing incriminating was found in the video clips, audio files and images extracted from their mobile phones. “The videos did not show who sent them to the devices and from what device or groups and whether there was sharing. How the videos and messages were linked to instigation of terrorism was also not clearly explained by witnesses. The terror group is not mentioned,” Mr Makori said. On the allegations that the accused communicated with Al-Shabaab in Somalia, the magistrate noted that the calls allegedly to or from the accused were missed calls to the phone reportedly recovered from them. GRAPHIC MATERIAL The prosecution had painted a picture and theory that the accused were planning to leave Kenya and were headed to Somalia to join a terror group, and that they were in constant communication with the terrorists. The prosecution said mobile phones, laptops and flash disks were found to contain photographs and videos, which could be used for instigation of terrorist activities. In determining these issues, the court asked itself the following questions: Did the extreme graphic materials lead to the conclusion that the accused were members of Al-Shabaab? Were the contents in use for instigation or propagation of terror? Were the articles recovered for gathering information for terror activities? “At this stage it will suffice to state other than the extreme content in the phones and saved mobile numbers bearing Somalia call code, there were no any other items like explosives, guns or any other materials ordinarily used for terror attacks or likely to have been used to organise terror activities..,” Mr Makori said.   Judge ruled that she was wrongly convicted.