Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Echesa skipped summons issued against him by the Police on Thursday. Mr Echesa was scheduled to appear at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC) police station by 10am on Friday after three journalists; David Ndolo, Stafford Ondego and Alex Mulwa alleged he paid them Sh5,000 to manipulate photos showing Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala in a compromising position with an unknown woman. Nairobi Central police boss Robinson Thuku on Friday evening said they were still waiting for the CS and his driver, identified as Mr Fredrick Ouma to honour the summons. He warned that police would take unspecified action against the two if they failed to honour the summons. “He is yet to honour the summons despite a commitment that he would have done so,” said Mr Thuku. SWITCHED OFF The whereabouts of the CS remained unknown and when the Nation team visited his office, his secretaries said he was away attending a meeting. “The CS is not here, he is attending a meeting elsewhere,” they said. Efforts to reach him on phone proved futile as it was switched off for the better part of the day. Mr Ouma, his driver, however answered our calls before hanging up when he asked whether he would honour the summons. Mr Echesa is said to be having crucial information that would help the police in their investigations. “KICC police station have a reason to believe you Hon Rashid Echesa have information that may assist in investigation of alleged offence of Cyber Crime Act of 2018,” read part of the summon. MANIPULATE IMAGES The three photojournalists were on the other hand presented in court over the matter but set free due to a faulty charge sheet. Chief Magistrate Francis Andayi freed the three after the court was told the offences they were to be charged with had been coined from a law that has been suspended by the High Court. “The accused persons are hereby discharged,” said Chief Magistrate Andayi. The three were allegedly paid Sh5,000 by the CS to manipulate images of the Senator in a compromising situation with an unidentified woman and then have the images widely shared on social media. The trio is accused of taking Senator Malala’s photo image, cropping off the head, placing an unrelated naked body and putting it beside an unclothed woman.   They were to be charged with publication of false information.