Security TV footage aired in court showed a vehicle belonging to murdered taxi driver Joseph Muiruri was last seen on June 23, 2016. Administration Police officers Fredrick Leliman, Stephen Cheburet, Sylvia Wanjiku, Leonard Maina Mwangi and police informant Peter Ngugi have denied killing Mr Muiruri, Mr Willy Kimani and Mr Joseph Mwenda. The three were kidnapped after leaving Mavoko law courts. Their bodies were recovered from River Athi a week later. SEVERAL CAMERAS Mr Kimani, a lawyer, was representing Mr Mwenda in a complaint he had filed against Mr Leliman at the Independent Policing and Oversight Authority. Presenting slides in court, Mr Kennedy Kirandi Mwadime — a detective — said the vehicle was last captured on CCTV cameras on Mombasa Road near Syokimau Railway station. The time indicated in the footage is 12.27pm. The only occupant of the car is the driver. The car was, however, captured by several cameras on Forest Road, near Kolobot Road junction from 5.05am. It was later captured on Waiyaki Way at 5.21am heading towards ABC Place, then at Uthiru junction on its way to Kinoo. TWO OCCUPANTS Around 6.28am, the car appears on Lang’ata Road near Bomas of Kenya heading towards Galleria. It has two occupants. The vehicle then headed towards Rongai, then Mombasa Road. It was then driven towards Mlolongo with two occupants at 7.44am. Mr Mwadime provided to court the movements of the car from June 20 to 23, 2016. Most of the trips the taxi made were on Waiyaki Way, Westlands. NUMBER PLATE The footage shows the vehicle registration and its occupants but their faces are not clear. “On the last day it was captured, the driver was light-skinned and appeared different from the person who was operating the vehicle that morning,” the officer said. The system, operated at Jogoo House, is known as automatic number plate recognition solution. It is also used for capturing information in the new police mobile phones. POLICE RADIO Mr Mwadime said from the system, he can pick a call and tell if the signal is from the AP, regular police or the Directorate of Criminal Investigations. He said he can also tell if the signal is from a police division, county headquarters or a station. The witness said he was asked to tell the history of a frequency on the police radio used by the officers at Syokimau AP camp and the movement of the holders. The hearing continues on Thursday.   The holder of the radio phone stayed at the isolated field for more than five hours.