Four boxers each from Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) and Kongowea BC have qualified for the finals of the third leg of the National Boxing League at Uwanja wa Mbuzi in Mombasa on Saturday. Dallas and Kibra will have two boxers each in the final as Thika, Kentrack, Nairobi and Omar Kasongo Sports Academy (OKSA) managed to enter a boxer each. Prisons was one of teams which failed to enter a single boxer in the finals. Three Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) boxers were knocked out in the semi-finals of the National Boxing League at Uwanja wa Mbuzi ground in Mombasa on Friday. In the first ten bouts during the second day of the league, three Kongowea BC pugilists managed to qualify for the finals to be held on Saturday at the same venue. The first KDF boxer to be eliminated was Abedneko Kyalo who lost his light flyweight to Dallas’ Benson Kyalo who is to fight Martin Maina of Thika in the final. The Thika-based boxer had beaten Prison’s Moses Kilavuka in the semi-final. In the light-heavyweight category, KDF’s Nick Abaka booked his place in the final after beating Francis Ndenga of Kontract. Abaka will meet Joshua Wasike of OKSA who outpointed Prisons' Joseph Odhiambo. In the flyweight, Charles Macharia of Dallas booked his place in the final when his bout ended in round two following an injury to his opponent Mathayo Keya of Kenya National Hospital (KNH). Macharia will meet Mohamed Hussein of Kibra who outpointed KDF’s Kelvin Maina. In an all-Mombasa bantamweight fight, James Mututi of Coast lost on points to Kongowea’s Hazard Nassir who will Saturday face Isaac Meja of KDF who out-pointed Stephen Ndung'u of Prisons. Said Baghwani of Kongowea for the second time finished the job in round two as his opponent in the lightweight contest William got injured. Baghwani is set to take on Stanley Ogutu of Kentrack who won his bout against Nicky Ombati of Omar Kasongo Sports Academy (OKSA). John Juma of Kibra won the first semi-final of the light welterweight when his opponent Robert Kithuka of KDF retired in round three. Juma takes on Isiah Odhiambo of Kongowea who beat Lenox Omukhwaya of OKSA. In welterweight, Michael Ochieng of Kongowea won his bout in round one when Kennedy Omondi of Prisons got injured. Ochieng' will meet KDF’s Lawrence Okuta who won when his opponent Vincent Ouma of Kentrack also got injured in the first round. Two Mombasa pugilists Sunday Sinzoli of Coast and Kongowea’s Chris Orengo were eliminated in their middleweight fights by Edwin Okongo (KDF) and John Hongo (Nairobi) respectively.   Robin Ombija of Kisumu was disqualified by the referee in the first round.