In recent months, Kenyans have been treated to chaos, unruly behaviour and disobedience of the law by politicians. The incidents are prevalent among members of the county assembly (MCAs) with cases of stripping naked in public and other acts of indecency, fighting, name-calling, unsavoury language and blackmail witnessed in Wajir, Murang’a, Nairobi, Kakamega, Homa Bay and Nyandarua. Similar incidents have been witnessed among MPs on several occasions. DISREPUTE It’s no different for teachers when exercising their constitutional right to hold demonstrations. While it is possible and, indeed, necessary to exercise this right ethically, picketing teachers have more often than not conducted themselves in a manner that brings disrepute to their high standing in society. Going by the frequency of these incidents, some of our leaders appear to be oblivious to the constitutional dictates on ethics and integrity that befit public officers as entrenched in the Constitution in 2010. BEDEVILLED The deficiency of integrity in public leadership has substantially contributed to bad governance, as manifested through corruption and impunity. A key factor that informed Kenyans’ struggle for a new Constitution was to end impunity, which had bedevilled the country for decades, and establish a system of governance firmly based on the rule of law and respect for the people. Kenyans shed blood and lost limb and property in the quest to redesign and restructure the government and have leaders who would champion virtuous and ethical conduct of affairs. That is the essence of Chapter Six of the Constitution — on ethics. HANGOVER Despite that, we continue to experience incidents of breakdown of the rule of law, human rights violations, ethnic malpractices, corruption and economic crimes. The utterances and practices of a section of leaders succinctly manifest that majority of us harbour a hangover of the past. Should the ethical malpractices be allowed to continue, it would mean that the Constitution, in particular Chapter Six, has no meaning at all. The transformative servant leadership that we yearned for would be elusive. ASPIRATIONS Justices George Odunga, Mumbi Ngugi and Joel Ngugi, in Trusted Society of Human Rights Alliance v Attorney-General & two others, aptly captured what could be the ideal meaning and spirit of Chapter Six. They stated in their judgment: “Kenyans were very clear in their intentions when they enacted Chapter Six of the Constitution on leadership and integrity … they did not intend that these provisions on integrity and suitability for public offices be merely suggestions, superfluous, ornamental or lofty aspirations.” HONOUR As well put by the Bench, Chapter Six has raised the ethical bar for public leadership and binds all officials in both their public and private lives. They are required to protect the honour and dignity of their offices, act professionally, exhibit respect and courtesy towards others and uphold moral and ethical conduct. Articles 73 and 75 of the Constitution require State officers to conduct themselves in a manner that shows respect for the people and promotes public confidence and brings honour to the nation and dignity to the office they hold. The provisions of Chapter Six are amplified under the Leadership and Integrity Act 2012. CONSEQUENCES Parliamentary privilege and immunity does not oust the application of Chapter Six, to allow ethical breaches in the discharge of legislative business. Whereas the misconduct by politicians is largely punishable under the relevant House Standing Orders, remember, Chapter Six of the Constitution governs their conduct in both public and private lives. Further, all other laws and regulations, including the Standing Orders, are subject to the Constitution. Such persons should warn themselves that violation of Chapter Six has serious consequences that may include removal from office through court petitions by aggrieved voters or constitutional commissions with the requisite remit. EVALUATION Whereas the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) has achieved much in the fight against graft and unethical conduct, the pursuit of good governance is the responsibility of all. Let’s demand accountability and integrity from those we entrust with management of public affairs. As the debate on a referendum to change the Constitution gains currency, qualification of elected leaders should be part of this narrative. It beats logic how semi-literate persons are expected to legislate on various laws or offer oversight over the country’s affairs. This is an opportunity to have, as a condition, moral competence and character evaluation being inbuilt structures for holding public office. Ms Benyawa is a freelance journalist. lbenyawa@gmail.com.  