Journalist Jacque Maribe and her fiancé Joseph Irungu alias Jowie, who are accused of murdering Monica Kimani, were Wednesday presented in court where they pleaded to be released on bond. The two, who had been in remand for more than two weeks, pleaded to the charge afresh after the prosecution amended the charge sheet to include the words, that the committed the offence with others not before court. The case was adjourned briefly to allow advocates representing various parties peruse a probation report filed in court regarding the two suspects. The lovers, who have since denied killing Ms Kimani on September 19, want to be released on bond arguing that they will not interfere with witness or abscond the trial. NGO APPLICATION Meanwhile, Justice James Wakiaga rejected an application by an NGO calling itself Empowering Africa Through Media, saying it has failed to disclose its interest in the case. The Judge also expunged an affidavit filed by the chairman of the NGO, Mr Josiah Murigu, from the court record. He said should the NGO feel they have to participate in the case, it should file a proper application. MARIBE PLEA Ms Maribe, a mother of one, said in her application that she has cooperated with police whom she allowed access to her car, house and mobile phone as they conducted the investigations. The journalist also said she was not at the crime scene and has only been implicated because of her association with Jowie. The two were in a jovial mood and hi-fived and hugged colleagues and friends before the hearing started. Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja, State House official Dennis Itumbi and other friends came in to offer support to Ms Maribe. WITNESS PROTECTION The prosecution led by Catherine Mwaniki said they will oppose their release on bail. Ms Mwaniki said some of the witnesses have to be placed under witness protection and they were yet to complete investigations. A lawyer representing Ms Kimani's family also said they will also be opposing their release on bail. Investigations are still ongoing over the killing of Ms Kimani. Last week, a Recce Squad officer linked to Mr Irungu was arrested and ordered detained by court as police seek to tie up loose ends in the probe. APARTMENT KILLING The two are accused of killing Ms Kimani whose body was found in her Nairobi apartment with her throat slit from ear to ear. Ms Kimani was killed on September 19, several hours after jetting into Kenya from Juba, South Sudan where she ran a family business. The young woman's murder has gripped the nation, coming in wake of a similar killing in Homa Bay County that involved another youthful victim, Ms Sharon Otieno. Migori Govenor Okoth Obado and his two aides, Mr Michael Oyamo and Mr Caspal Obiero, were arrested and charged with murdering Ms Otieno. Another murder charge was also added over the killing of Ms Otieno's unborn child; At the time of her killing, the Rongo University student was seven months pregnant. After almost a month in remand, Mr Okoth was freed on bail Wednesday but his two aides were denied their freedom. Their case will be heard next year.   In court papers, Ms Maribe wants to be freed on bail, saying she is not a flight risk.