Police on Monday arrested a Kenyan and two foreigners at Sandalwood Apartments in Westlands, Nairobi County, where they found more than Sh1 billion in fake currency. Via Twitter, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) identified them as Kenyan Anthony Mwangangi and Chadians Abdalla Tamba and his son Abdoulaye. DOLLARS, EUROS The three were arrested by Flying Squad officers after members of the public gave police a tip. They were apprehended in the afternoon at their three-bedroom apartment on Brookside Lane, where fake dollars and Euros were found. One person fled but police assured his arrest.   GET RICH QUICK Mr Musa Yego, the Flying Squad boss in Nairobi, said the foreigners had also been deceiving Kenyans that they would help them get rich and stealing from them. “The foreigners have been in the country for over 10 years. We want the owner of the apartment to explain what he knows about them,” Mr Yego said. Mr Tamba was also found with a machine, which detectives suspect was being used to make the fake currency. While noting that police had been trailing him for weeks, Mr Yego asked the public for information on him and the others so they are taken to court. The DCI said the Kenyan had been working as the driver of the two. The driver, in his defence, told the detectives that he had never been allowed to step into the house and was equally shocked that the two had been processing fake currency.   PAST CASE In October 2015, the suspects, together with Mr Suleiman Musa, Mr Mahmat Tamba and Mr Yahya Kangweri, were arrested allegedly with $1.5 million (Sh153 million) in counterfeit notes. According to police records, they said they were nationals of Central African Republic. Police said they were deported so they will explain how they returned. The suspects were arrested after a complaint by Mr Abdullah Hassan, who told the police that they owed him $4 million and that they had refused to pay him. On September 21, two Nigerians and a Tanzanian were arrested for allegedly engaging in electronic fraud. The DCI said the crime cost local banks huge amounts of money. Details were not given but police said that the money in question was withdrawn outside Kenya. Authorities have heightened operations to nab criminals in Nairobi and other parts of the country, to prevent cyber crimes, bank thefts and other offences.   Police say they recovered ATM cards, laptops and cheque books.