Francis Imbuga, in his playBetrayal in the City, has addressed many pertinent issues including betrayal, corruption and oppression. This article will focus on disillusionment and a sample essay. As the citizens fought for independence, they had very high hopes their lives will change for the better with the independence. They looked forward to freedom and development in the land and a better future for their children. However, when they gain independence, they are highly disappointed with the leaders, who take advantage of their positions to oppress and deny their subjects their rights. When Adika is shot down during the student’s protest, his parents prepare a shaving ceremony in accordance to their traditions. Boss, the leader can hear none of this and he sends Mulili, his right hand man and Jere, one of the police officers to go and stop the ceremony in ‘the interest of peace.’ When the two get to the graveside, Jere tries to convince Mulili sympathise with the old couple and allow them to conduct the harmless ceremony but he refuses. The couple, who has already lost has lost hope of ever recovering from the death of their son, gets more disappointed when they are denied their right to go on with the ceremony. Nina says that their hope is buried in their son’s grave. Citizens are not allowed the freedom of expression. When Jere differs with Mulili on the issue of the ceremony, he is arrested and imprisoned the following day. In the prison, he meets Mosese, who is also imprisoned for expressing his opinion during Adika’s burial, where the government had put very strict and unreasonable directives. The service was to take not more than ten minutes, the coffin was not to be carried by the students and there was to be no weeping in public. He was arrested and accused of being in possession of opium which was actually planted on his car by Nicodemo, one of the government officials. The two express their disappointment and hopelessness at the way the government is treating the subjects. Mosese says that it is better while they waited for independence because, now, there is nothing to look forward to. He goes ahead and says that they have killed their past and are busy killing their future. Jere comments that the outside of the cell is the inside of another one, meaning that even those outside the cells are also not free because they don’t have any freedom to enjoy their lights as citizens. The two are a representative of the citizens of Kafira, who are so oppressed that they have reached their breaking point. A sample question ‘Francis Imbuga uses humour to address very serious issues.’ Write an essay to show the validity of this statement drawing our illustrations from the playBetrayal in the City. Some very serious issues that affect Kafira are brought out in hilarious way. These include corruption, dictatorship, oppression and incompetence. Corruption by the leaders in Kafira is alive and it is exposed in a humorous way. Mulili, one of the government officials exposes his corrupt nature through broken English. He attends the meeting late and says he is very ‘sorrowful’ for being late but goes on to say ‘that it is better never than late.’ While explaining why he is late for the meeting, he uses broken English which makes the explanation hilarious. This include such statements as; … … ‘yesterday they termination my tender,…. they gives it to unknown small man. … … you knows who is speaking? … … what happen to Mulili tender for supply milk?’ this shows both Mulili and Boss use their influence to give Mulili the milk tender when he does not deserve it. Tumbo tells Jusper that his prize winning play will be performed for the visitor. This confuses Jusper because he has not written any play. He explains to him that a sum of money has been allocated for a play writing competition but says that there is no need for the completion if they already know what play ought to be produced. This exposes Tumbo’s corrupt and incompetence as a leader. His ignorance and incompetence as a leader is further seen when he confuses Soyinka for a prime minister of a country he cannot remember. Oppression and injustice is also brought out in a humorous way. When trying to stop the old couple from performing the shaving ceremony, Mulili again uses broken English which leaves the readers in stitches. When Doga tells him that a shaving ceremony is no child’s play, he misinterprets it and replies; …. ‘who you call child, eeh? Jere, you tell him what I does with stubborn old men’s.’ The leader’s dictatorship on his subjects is laughable. Boss intends to rape Regina, who escapes through the window and he detains his wife, Mercedes in the palace cell to teach her a lesson for complaining about the incidence. Mulili also suggests that everyone including the schoolchildren to line up along the road to welcome the visiting leader. The directives about how the funeral ceremony should be conducted are not only ridiculous but also funny. It is evident that the playwright has employed humour not only to make the play interesting but also to address important issues that affect the society.  The writer is a teacher at Alliance Girls High School.   Among the themes that Francis Imbuga addressed is the fight for justice.