The Mombasa County government has partnered with private investors to launch a luxury double-decker sightseeing bus. The bus was bought by Mombasa Sightseeing Limited that has a sister company offering educational and historical tours in Kampala. The firm’s Business Development Manager Reuben King’ori said charges will start from Sh3,000. The bus will be launched next week. “Our rates for local tourists start from Sh3,000 and USD 35 for international tourists. The rates are per individual. Booking should be done at least one day to the date of the tour,” read a post from the firm. IMPROVE EXPERIENCE The county’s Tourism department said the initiative is aimed at improving the tourist experiences in Mombasa. “The open roof double-decker bus will allow tourists to hop on and hop off as much as they like at any of the bus stops on the route and see all the best sights and attractions that Mombasa city has to offer. The official launch of this new experience is on 9/10/2018 at Mapembeni,” read a post on the department’s Twitter account. The department is working with private investors to introduce the double-decker sightseeing bus to redefine tourism in the region. The sightseeing bus will offer two trips every day from Monday to Saturday. "In the tours, we visit over 25 of the best tourist attractions that Mombasa has to offer aboard our luxurious double-decker buses," read a post on the company’s website. TOUR GUIDES The bus will have on board tour guides while a number of stop overs and meals are included in the tour package. County’s Communication Director Richard Chacha said the bus will visit different attractions in and out of Mombasa CBD. Kenya Association of Hotel keepers and Caterers Coast branch executive officer Sam Ikwaye said the bus will boost Mombasa’s tourism portfolio. “It is a good thing that the county is working with private investors to promote the destination. When that bus is launched it will elevate Mombasa as a (tourism) destination,” said Mr Ikwaye.  