IN DAR ES SALAAM Yvonne Akinyi starred for Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) women as they edged out a stubborn APR side 50-49 in day two of the Fiba Africa Zone Five club championships at the Dar es Salaam indoor courts on Monday. The Rwandese side, who fielded a youthful side dominated by students who featured in the East African Secondary school games in August, proved they were no pushovers preserving an eight-point cushion (45-37) until the last four minutes. A tactical change by coach Anthony Ojukwu who substituted off-colour Linet Atieno for Rachael Wandago coupled by the experience of Akinyi saved the day as Wandago scored the last four points while Akinyi contributed two vital points on the buzzer to give KPA women the one point lead. APR's Joseline Munyameza should perhaps take the biggest blame for the slim loss after the shooting guard failed to convert six free throws awarded in the dying minutes of the game. "We deserved to win this game because we had a big lead and had a chance of putting the game beyond the reach of our opponents with the several free throws we got in the dying minutes but failed to convert," lamented Mbazumutima after the match. His KPA counterpart Anthony Ojukwu was happy with the win but challenged his players to do more in subsequent matches. "First games are always difficult to play because of the tension involved plus most of the players take long to adjust but we are now done with that and should be very strong in the other games," assessed Ojukwu.   KPA's Cameroonian import Fotso Helene Michele was a joy to watch contributing crucial points and assists which helped the Dockers to open up the game. Yvonne Akinyi scored a game high 14 points while new signing Mercy Wanyama had nine for KPA. Charllote Umugwaneza had 13, Nicole Urwibusto 12 and Joseline Munyameza 10 for APR  whose next game will be on Thursday against Equity Bank of Kenya. KPA women play their next fixture on Wednesday against hosts JKT. In other matches played earlier, Patriots from Rwanda beat Wolkite from Ethiopia 84-34 ,in a group B match while JKT from Tanzania beat South Sudan's Cobra 88-81 in a hotly contested group A match. Kenya's Strathmore Blades got a walk-over in their opening match after New Star of Burundi failed to arrive on time for the match.   The dockers are known for their aggression especially inside the paint.