Leaders, Kikuyu artists and fans of the late Joseph Kamaru have continued to eulogise him saying his death reflects an end of an era. Led by Opposition leader Raila Odinga, the political class has heaped praises on the deceased saying 'his music inspired generations in Central Kenya and beyond to reflect deeply on political, cultural and social issues'. VAST EXPERIENCE Mr Kamaru's close friends and artists said he died while on a mission to transform the music industry with his vast experience and connections. According to Epha Maina, the Mr Kamaru was in the process of uniting all artists in Mt Kenya region and had sent a letter to various government ministries and to President Uhuru Kenyatta who had agreed to support the industry. Mr Maina; a dancer in Mr Kamaru's band said he was a father to the experienced and upcoming musicians. "He was our father, we hope that although he is no more, his intentions will come to pass and an organisation to unite musicians will be formed as was his wish," he said. He disclosed that they have been meeting at Mr Kamaru's Thome Estate, in Nairobi for the burial plans. BEST FATHER Mr CDM Kiratu; who has been Mr Kamaru's friend for over 50 years said he was a loving, kind and generous musician. He said he was not sure whether someone could fit in Mr Kamaru's shoes. Gospel artist Ben Githae described Mr Kamaru as selfless saying he assisted secular and gospel artists. "He was the best father in the music industry," Mr Githae said. His fans have eulogised him as the seer who shaped the politics of the day and offered couples advise through his well articulated songs. WELL ARTICULATED Njoki Nyambura, Mr Kamaru's fan said she could follow the artist wherever he went to perform: "To me, Mr Kamaru's songs were new day by day,  I am 28 and I know almost all his songs. May the Lord God comfort the family. The artists will be meeting today at his Nairobi home for burial preparations.   Kamaru dies at Nairobi's MP Shah Hospital where he had been admitted since Monday.