The Malkia Strikers on Thursday slumped to a crashing 3-0 (25-5, 25-7, 25-15) loss to Dominican Republic in their final FIVB Women's World Championship Group D match at the Hamamatsu Arena in Hamamatsu, Japan. The victory ensured Dominican Republic sail into the tournament’s next round on a 2-2 record, while Kenya will now return home after recording four losses and a single win. In the contest that took just 57 minutes, the senior women’s national team found the going tough against the Caribbean’s who have participated in every World Grand Prix tournament since 2004 and are making their sixth consecutive appearance at the World Championship. As if to demonstrate their superiority against Kenya, the Dominicans started the first set with two aces and ended it with another. Through a couple of near perfect serves and palm-stinging spikes, the Caribbean queens built up a 16-5 lead at the second technical time out before Lisvel Elisa Eve Mejia finished off the set at 25-5 with another ace. The second set was even more frustrating for Kenya, as they found themselves trailing 8-1 at the first timeout and 16-2 at the second on their way to a 25-7 capitulation. There was no reprieve for Kenya in the last set, although they managed to keep up with the Dominicans at 3-3 and 6-6 before the opponents took control and rushed to a 16-11 lead. After the second technical timeout, Dominican Republic allowed Kenya only four more points as they wrapped matters comfortably with a 25-15 score. FOURTH STRAIGHT LOSS The loss, Malkia Strikers' fourth on the trot at the Championships, means the Kenyan lasses return home with their opening day win over Kazakhstan - which was the country's first ever in the competition. After the match, Kenya coach Japheth Munala was full of praise for his opponents, saying that they were his team’s toughest opponents in the competition. “We wanted to play well against Dominican Republic but they destroyed our reception and were fast on counterattack. I wish them success in the next round and I hope they go all the way to the final,” he told the FIVB website. The result left Kenya standing in the second last position in Pool D pending a match between Brazil and Kazakhstan, as table toppers Serbia, Brazil, Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico moved to the tournament’s second round. The Malkia Strikers are returning to the global competition after an eight-year hiatus, and they had set qualification to the second round as their minimum target. The competition brought together 24 teams who have been spread across four pools of six teams each with the top four teams from each pool advancing to the second round. Squad: Jane Wacu, Janet Wanja, Trizah Atuka , Edith Wisa, Lorine Chebet, Chrsitine Siwa, Mercy Moim, Noel Murambi, Sharon Chepchumba, Leonida Kasaya, Violet Makuto , Emmaculate Chemtai, Elizabeth Wanyama, Aggripina Kundu   This was Kenya’s third defeat of the competition.