The death of 50 passengers in a road crash at Fort Ternan on Wednesday came hardly 12 hours after the Traffic Commandant Samwel Kimaru warned there was a sharp rise in the number of fatalities on Kenyan roads. The traffic commandant said his officers will do all they can to curb further accidents as the country prepares for end of year festivities, a season that usually sees a rise in number of deadly crashes. Mr Kimaru said that in the last 10 months, 2,345 people have died in road crashes across the country, an eight percent increase compared to last year. “As of September 9, last year, 2,165 deaths from road accidents were reported compared to this year's 2,345, an increase of 180 victims,” said Mr Kimaru. He further said the number of reported accidents has risen sharply this year compared to last year. “As of today, there are 1,948 accidents reported in the country compared to 1,776 reported in the same period last year, which reflects an increase of 172 cases,” said Mr Kimaru at a press briefing after a day-long training of boda boda riders on traffic rules and road safety in Bomet town. Mr Kimaru said 530 pedestrians, 189 boda boda passengers, 42 cyclists and 438 motorcyclists have been involved in road accidents this year. CRACKDOWN But the traffic boss said serious accidents and number of passengers involved in crashes have been on the decline. “Last year, 1,264 serious accidents were reported compared to 1,493 incidents this year,” said Mr Kimaru. In 2013, the government restricted night travel by bus companies following an increase in the number of accidents. Mr Kimaru said the police have been keen on reducing road carnage caused by overloading and careless driving. “Boda boda riders must have licences, wear helmets, have insurance for their motorcycles and must strictly adhere to road safety rules in the country,” said Mr Kimaru. He said overloading and failure to observe traffic rules were the main causes of the accidents involving motorcycles. Mr Kimaru said a crackdown on personal cars, especially Toyota Probox and Sienta, that have been converted to public service vehicles would continue across the country.   Leaders call for probe to establish cause of crash with a view to prosecuting culprits.