One of the places in Nairobi that I remember with nostalgia is the jobless corner. Although each estate in the city has its own branch, the head office is located along Moi Avenue near Kencom Bus Station. It is a mini public park with several concrete benches. This is where the top jobless persons in the city converge to chart the way forward and share their strategies for getting jobs. The job search corner is a gold-mine for peddlers. Especially the preachers who peddle hope to jobseekers in the hope of a few coins and prayer or a bible verse or two later. HAWKERS TRY THEIR LUCK Hawkers also try their luck with the jobseekers to no avail. My personal experience at the corner has made me empathise with the predicament of the occupants, and once in a while I will go out of my way to help a jobless person to secure a position. The job opportunities show up in odd places. Like bars. When my drinking buddies brag about their successful hardware shops, I take it as a chance to ask for a job on someone’s behalf. NEW HARDWARE SHOP One business mogul will talk about opening a new hardware branch in Kapsabet and say he needs strong men to offload bags of cement and iron sheets. Another will say how they are increasing their fleets by buying more Peugeot 404 pickups and they are looking for drivers to ferry avocado fruits to Marigiti market in Nairobi. I usually take this as my cue to make a few strategic calls to the key influencers in Matimbei village including the local Sub Chief, the MCA and the Chairman of Nyumba Kumi initiative. LUCRATIVE JOBS I will usually instruct them to urgently look for four young men who are ready to take lucrative jobs in the big city. The MCA is always in the local bar meeting delegations who need his audience, but he usually has the grace to send me the telephone contacts of four young men. There is this time he sent me without names, and my TrueCaller revealed strange names like Musakuru Original, Jontay Handsome, Ras Jokopai and Rashid Mdosi. REACHING THE UNREACHABLE I will usually spend the next three days trying to reach these youths so that they can come and work with the large multinationals owned by my rich hardware and transportation business moguls. As bad luck continues to follow good people, all their telephones are usually either switched off or the calls go unanswered. I will go further and try to contact them through their parents. Eventually I will reach them one by one, but my agony will not be over yet. Having a conversation with the prospective employees is like undergoing a crash course in a new language from the Far East. They will stick to a complex lingo that is a mixture of sheng infused with the local dialect. I will bite my lower lip with frustration as they keep referring to me as Mzae, and I will spend my last bit of patience to be sure I have communicated the right message. EXCUSES My patience will be tested further as I later call my rich friends in order to enquire if my references showed up for work. With good luck, one of them will show up albeit late. The rest will give all sorts of excuses as to why they could not report to work, but the whole truth is that they squandered their fare in placing a soccer bet and their team lost, therefore finding them stranded at home in the morning. From my diverse experience in dealing with occupants of jobless corner and trying to link them up with my friends who are big employers in the city, I have a wealth of consultancy services that I offer for free. If you are looking for a job, please drop all those Hollywood superstar and premier league players’ names from all your CV and social media profiles. Secondly, keep your telephone line active at all times. Finally, keep a contingent fund to afford you fare to the big city just in case you need to report to work on short notice. Thank me later.    I usually dedicate September to my annual medical check-ups.