Nyeri and Laikipia counties over the weekend crowned 27-year-old Jane Njeri and 23 year old Yvonne Wangeci respectively as the beauty queens to represent their regions during the final Miss Tourism Kenya gala. The two winners will battle it out with others from various counties at a glamorous ceremony to be held at Safari Park Hotel in Nairobi on October 13. The pageant, a concept of Vera Beauty and Fashion College under the stewardship of Ms Alice Kamunge, gives counties a platform to market themselves. In Nyeri, the Miss Tourism edition was held at White Rhino Hotel where 16 contestants battled to become the county’s flag bearer. CREATIVITY The models competed in various categories including creative and traditional wear. The beauties chose their own outfits for the competition and their choices showed their individual style and personality. Despite the financial constraints, the organisers managed to put together a fun-filled night where the audience was entertained by gospel artiste Jimmy Gait. The pageant’s county director Mercy King’ori noted that the event had given the youth an opportunity to showcase their abilities, promising that next year’s edition will target more youth at the sub-county levels. The contest aims at identifying and promoting tourism products, increasing tourism awareness and activities while encouraging and improving public-private partnerships. NURTURE TALENT Nyeri County Assembly Speaker John Kaguchia said that the county executive and the assembly were committed towards nurturing talents by supporting financially band through proper legislations. Governor Mutahi Kahiga and two MCAS were forced to individually spend their own money to finance this year’s Miss Tourism after the county pulled out, citing budgetary constraints. Ms Njeri succeeds Ms Elizabeth Muthoni who was the reigning Miss Tourism for the last two years after the 2017 elections hampered plans to hold the annual pageant. “I felt that Nyeri County has amazing tourist destinations that are under-marketed. I will work to ensure that our county reaps big from the breath-taking sites,” she said. In Laikipia, the Miss Tourism event took place at the Sportman Arms Hotel in Nanyuki town. Governor Nderitu Muriithi and his wife Maria graced the occasion that was a culmination of over a month of preparations.  