In March, teachers alleged that the 33 million new secondary school textbooks procured by the government at Sh7.6 billion, including for the new syllabus, contained numerous errors. The then-Cabinet secretary for Education admitted that some of the materials were, indeed, erroneous and said the publishers would correct them. Kenya Publishers Association (KPA) has publicly denounced the errors, claiming that some of the materials have neither been published nor approved for use in the country. ENGAGE LEARNERS While pointing the finger at unnamed parties that it accused of attempts at sabotaging the new curriculum, KPA said all the materials approved by the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD) have undergone rigorous vetting. Notable errors include wrong calculations, misspelling, content mix-up, poor arrangement of topics and several exercises that do not fully engage learners. Instructional materials form a primary resource for learners and teachers in meeting the goals and objectives of education, especially when they are officially approved by the government. INTENDED OUTCOMES Hence, selecting and approving such materials is critical to providing not only the students but also teachers with a solid foundation to realise the intended outcomes. Careful selection gives confidence and assurance that the entire process was not haphazard. Therefore, reviewers of instructional materials need to be people who are well-versed in the standards and have wide experience in teaching the classes for which the materials are being considered. MANAGEMENT They should be veteran teachers who contribute their knowledge of how learners interact with the materials, classroom management during the use of the materials and even foresee and forestall the challenges that could arise in the use of the materials. It is the role of the experts in the subject area to bring in the importance of the content and ensure its accuracy. APPROPRIATENESS In approving school textbooks and other learning materials for use in the education sector, however, cost should never override other principles. These include authenticity (accurate, up-to-date and dependable information) and organisation (well balanced and organised content, logical organisation, clear and in accordance with the principles of learning such as reinforcement, transfer and application in the materials). The other principles include appropriateness and interest. TEDIOUS PROCESS Creating instructional materials, especially the publication of textbooks, is a tedious process that involves several players at different stages. As a result, there could be a possibility of human error as the publishers are human. However, instances have been noted where authors reject suggested edits due to failure to meet deadlines. Editors may then be compelled to allow the erroneous sections to pass. Publishers should, however, do their part. Those tasked with vetting the materials should follow due diligence and allow only books that meet the threshold into the classroom. Mr Ndori is a secondary schoolteacher in Mombasa County. kenndori@gmail.com. Ken K. Ndori  