Kanu and ODM leaders yesterday rallied support for the referendum. The team led by Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and his Homa Bay counterpart Moses Kajwang’ called on those opposed to the change of the supreme law to brace themselves for a rude shock. CONDITIONS Mr Moi cautioned leaders against issuing conditions saying the referendum is well-intentioned and aimed at benefitting all Kenyans. The two who were accompanied by a host of leaders said they are ready to lose their Senate seats if that is what they have to pay for supporting the change of the Constitution. “I am ready for the referendum even if it will involve scrapping the Senate seat. I urge other leaders that they should not tie any condition to this,” Mr Moi said during a fundraising at Wikondiek SDA Church in Karachuonyo. He was accompanied by Moiben MP Silas Tiren who also expressed his support for the change of law. Mr Kajwang' termed the quest for referendum as the only thing which can address the challenges facing devolution. “This referendum must be about jobs for the youth and not about the ‘big’ people who want to be given positions,” he added. HANDSHAKE On the other hand, the younger Moi backed the ‘handshake’ between President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition leader Raila Odinga saying the it will help the country forge a united front. “It is because of the handshake that we are today here enjoying the freedom of expression and association,” he said, adding that the initiative has promoted peace and tranquility. The Kanu chairman who said he is in Homa Bay County to ‘connect with old friends’ also expressed his readiness to work with the Luo community ahead of the 2022 . His sentiments came as Senator Kajwang’ called on President Kenyatta to hand over power to Mr Moi and Mr Odinga upon completion of his second term in office. “Unlike other people we know, Senator Moi has not been linked to any kind of corruption like land grabbing,” he said. “How I wish, pray and hope that in 2022 when Mr Kenyatta hands over power, he will not hand it to the people who have been indicted over corruption in the republic but capable hands of Mr Odinga and Mr Moi,” he said. He underlined that the Luo people are only interested to work with a leader who is committed to improve their lives. Homa Bay woman representative Gladys Wanga also reiterated her resolve to support the referendum as she expressed confidence that the handshake will ensure that the leaders work towards a common objective of working for the interest of Kenyans. Mr Moi helped raise a total of Sh2.5 million, with him giving Sh1 million as his personal contribution, and a further Sh1.5 million from the retired president   Moi says Kenyans should be allowed to review the Constitution and choose what they think works for them.