Lamu Governor Fahim Twaha now wants the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) and the police to probe and help recover more than Sh400 million which he claims was stolen during the reign of former governor Issa Timamy. Addressing the public at the King Fahad County Hospital over the weekend, Mr Twaha said his administration is yet to establish where the money went. Mr Twaha said the money was supposed to have been banked according to bank records presented to him when he assumed office. NO MONEY IN ACCOUNTS But he said several visits to the said banks have proved futile as the money cannot be traced in any of the indicated bank accounts. Mr Twaha said he is focusing his energy on serving the people of Lamu since it is not part of his mandate as a governor to “chase stolen money” since there are bodies set up for that purpose. He said he has grown tired of trying to find out what happened to the millions and is now calling on EACC to intervene and help recover the money which he believes was stolen or embezzled. “I had decided not to speak about this but I’ll have to since those who did it are now poking us. When I assumed office I was told there was over Sh400 million in the bank for Lamu. We were, however, shocked when we checked since all the accounts had been swept clean and had absolutely nothing. FRUSTRATED “I tried following up but was frustrated. Then I remembered that I just had a short period to serve my people and that’s what I am focusing on now. Let the EACC and police come in and recover that money for Lamu if they can since that’s not my job,” said Mr Twaha. He said EACC has a duty to find out who took the money and have them arrested and prosecuted for embezzling public funds. “Can you imagine what Sh400 million would do for Lamu? That’s enough to put up several ECDE schools or even enrol needy kids in school. If EACC and police can help us recover the cash, let them do so,” said Mr Twaha. Efforts to reach Mr Timamy for comments on the matter were unsuccessful since his phone went unanswered.  