A plot by a section of members of Migori County Assembly to impeach embattled Governor Okoth Obado may come a cropper as a majority of the leaders have rushed to his defence. MCAs seeking to kick out Mr Obado say the criminal charges he is facing after being linked to the murder of Rongo University student Sharon Otieno is adequate reason for him to relinquish his seat. But the camp backing Mr Obado has maintained that the county chief is innocent until proved guilty, and attempts to impeach him may be prejudicial. Mr Obado was on Thursday last week denied bail by High Court and has been remanded at Industrial Area Prison in Nairobi. SOLIDARITY He is expected back in court on October 8, coincidentally, the same day when the county's senatorial by-election is slated to take place. Majority Leader Mallan Ogega said he was not aware of any plans to impeach the governor and maintained that it is too early to entertain impeachment ideas. "The assembly has not received anything on the ouster of the governor. I believe it is premature to talk about it. We appeal to the people of Migori to remain calm as the law takes its course," Mr Ogega said. Scores of MCAs thronged the law courts in Nairobi on Monday and Thursday last week to show solidarity with the governor as he was taken to answer to the murder charge, which he denied. "We travelled to show solidarity with our governor. We continue to wish him well and we pray that he be vindicated," one of them said. CLOUT Yet another MCA confided to the Nation that the motion to impeach the governor would not go through as the assembly is "controlled by the governor". Migori has 56 MCAs, two thirds (40) of whom must support any impeachment motion. The Nation has learnt that a paltry 11 MCAs are supporting the move, albeit covertly, while the rest back Mr Obado. Nyabasi East MCA Mwita Motangi acknowledged that there is a section of MCAs keen on starting the process of impeaching the governor, but hastened to add that such a motion would not sail through as the governor holds sway in the assembly. "It is true there are those of us who may want to table a motion of impeachment but this will be defeated upon arrival as a majority are for the governor," he said. Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga is among leaders who have maintained that Mr Obado should quit.   Protesters claim murder charge hanging over the head of their governor is politically instigated.