President Uhuru Kenyatta has mourned Kikuyu benga maestro Joseph Kamaru who died on Wednesday night at MP Shah Hospital in Nairobi. Mr Kenyatta on Thursday said Mr Kamaru’s death had robbed the Kenyan music industry of a gifted artiste who mentored and nurtured many talents since 1980s. 2,000 SONGS “It was a blessing for us as a country to have had such a talented artiste who played a big role in promoting the Kenyan brand of music,” Mr Kenyatta said in his condolence message to Mr Kamaru's family, friends and fans. “Indeed, we will miss his educative music which was unique in many aspects.” The late Kamaru, who died at 79, started his musical career in 1956, and has so far recorded more than 2,000 songs— mostly addressing morality and social values. His popular hits include Gathoni, Charia Ungi, Tiga Kuhenia Igoti and Uthoni Wa Mbathini among others. Mr Kamaru performed during Mr Kenyatta's and Margaret's (now First Lady) marriage ceremony, an indication that the president was one of his big fans. “The songs stamped his status as a Kikuyu music legend who touched the hearts of music lovers with classic hits some that the present generation might not be familiar with,” Mr Kenyatta said. The head of state said the late Kamaru will be remembered for his contribution in the expansion of democratic space in Kenya through music. The president and Mr Kamaru were great friends and in April, Mr Kenyatta cleared the artiste's bill at Avenue Hospital in Nairobi. The late Kamaru, who hailed from Kangema in Murang’a County, was born in 1939. FAKE NEWS He succumbed to a nerve disease. "He was diagnosed with Parkinson plus, a nerve disease which we believe is the main cause of his death. But we thank God for giving him to us," his son Stephen Maina told the Nation on Wednesday. Mr Maina said the legendary musician started developing health problems at the beginning of 2018. On April 27, the musician dismissed fake news which was circulating on social media on his death . Speaking to the Nation then at Avenue Hospital, Mr Kamaru said God could not take him until he oversaw changes in the music industry and mentor upcoming musicians. "There have never been bad times for the music industry like these times; there are cartels and the piracy issues. The Lord God can't take me before ensuring that musicians get the sweat of their hard work," he noted. He had said that he intended to build a Kikuyu cultural home in one of his many farms in Murang’a to safeguard and protect the Kikuyu culture, a dream he has not managed to achieve. Kikuyu pop musician Epha Maina eulogised the late Kamaru terming him as the "father of all the artistes" and one whom they relied on for advice and ways to improve the music industry. "It is a loss to the Mt Kenya region and whole country at large. He was a strong pillar in the music industry but God had his plans for him," Mr Maina told Nation.   Benga musician Joseph Kamaru entertains guests during Madaraka celebrations in Nyeri on June 1, 2017. Mr Kamaru died at the MP Shah Hospital in Nairobi on October 3, 2018. PHOTO | FILE | NATION MEDIA GROUP Kamaru dies at Nairobi's MP Shah Hospital where he had been admitted since Monday.