The drums are beating. “Kenya” is calling for a referendum on the law. Soon, those with the machinery to engineer the course of this country will pull us into another circus — a spell of politicking and anxiety. Never mind, the tart taste of past election still irritates us. But then, as a nation, it appears, we are hard-wired to elections, just like addicts are to narcotics. We love this potion of empty rhetoric, gerrymandering, threats and conflict, in a long held myth that politicians will improve our lot. But, here, polls have a penchant for milling anarchy, in the process disrupting businesses and social life spiralling us to further misery. But we don't care a hoot. DIVERSION Now, we want a referendum to rework the constitutional order that certainly is designed to profit the narrow interests of a tiny clique of elites. Granted, no law is perfect. Thus, continuous review and amendments in tune to emergent realities, is indispensable. One of the most progressive constitutions, the USA’s, has been amended 27 times. Ours too needs some panel beating. In fact, there is a clear provision for changing the Supreme Law. The only discomfiture stems from a fallacy that the referendum will be a magic wand that will solve all our tribulations. Further from the truth. Our challenge today is rooted to a twisted national ethics and value system more than ineffective law. We lack the temerity to confront the genie that ails the country; instead we conveniently seek to divert attention and construct illusions in the name of a referendum that is aptly peddled as redemptive. DECEIT Of course, there are valid cases that require fixing such as over-representation or a bloated government. It is well argued the current structure is saddling the country’s fiscal strength. Well, it’s chic indeed to appeal to the masses with nuggets like trimming the number of parliamentarians or MCAs with a hope to reduce taxation … blah … blah … blah … Yet, that is just a honey trap to seduce the masses to the ballot. The real deal is what they call “inclusivity”. But don't be fooled. Inclusivity does not mean ‘Wanjiku’. It is a crafty reconfiguration of structures and regimes to accommodate the interests of the tribal chieftains, their henchmen and families. We, the masses, will be marshalled, like sheep, in a false sense of participation, to rubber stamp the flawed ideals. It’s a caricature of ourselves as we buy hope through a hollow referendum. HOPE The truth is that the political class has realised the sedative reservoirs of hope and patience that contain the masses are receding. When they sober up, society will go ballistic. The trick, then, is to construct false hope through a referendum. Proponents of change the constitution will openly lie how a new dispensation will procure paradise. We shall hang on that chimera for a decade or so before another referendum is called and the cycle continues. The everyday problem bedevilling Kenya may not be fixed by a revamped constitution but a recalibrated national value system, ethics and strong fidelity to the rule of law. Our lot will improve when we develop the competence and vigilance to demand political accountability. Mr Wamanji is a Public Relations and Communication Adviser ewamanji@yahoo.co.uk Twitter: @manjis  