Murang’a Governor Mwangi Wa Iria and the county assembly members have castigated Water Cabinet Secretary (CS) Simon Chelugui over water woes. They accuse Mr Chelugui of pursuing his commercial interests instead of using his position to reason with the warring parties. ACTIVE PLAYER The governor said the CS not wanting to listen to the side of the county government over the the management of water companies in Murang’a, is a clear indication that he has been 'pocketed' by the water cartels to protect their interests. “Mr Chelugui is an active player in water sector. His failure to listen to our line of argument is a clear indication that he is safeguarding his commercial interests through the water cartels that have oppressed Murang’a residents for long,” the governor told the Nation. “It’s ridiculous and an appropriate for the CS to interfere with matters involving two counties,” said Mr Wa Iria. The county boss is demanding 25 per cent from revenue of water sourced in Murang’a County. Mr Chelugui had told off the governor over his proposal to levy Murang’a water and his intentions of cutting off the water supply should the county government of Nairobi fail to pay the percentage. CRIMINAL OFFENCE “That amounts to criminal offence. We have alerted the security authorities who are pursuing the matter,” the CS said. The CS said that Murang’a was not justified to demand for a share saying Ndakaini dam was bought by Nairobi County and the land owners compensated. The statement has not augured well with Murang’a MCAs. Ms Diana Muthoni said the CS should not have rushed to comment over the matter without listening to both sides. INTIMIDATION “As a leader you don’t rush to give statements without listening to both sides. A leader serves all, those who are right and wrong, the offender and the offended, the rich and the poor,” she said. Majority Leader Eric Kamande said no amount of intimidation by the CS and Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko will deter them from pursuing what he says rightfully belongs to them. “We are heading to Ndakaini Dam on Monday to get their views, let the police not dare use teargas to disperse us the way they did last time,” he said.   CS says governor's administration has interfered with the management of water services.