Homeboyz eighth man Joshua Chisanga and Kenya Harlequin back William Reeve have been included in Kenya Simbas squad ahead of the 2019 Rugby World Cup qualifying Repechage tournament due November 11 to 23 in Marseille, France. The duo are in head coach Ian Snook’s squad of 30 players that leave the country on Tuesday next week to Romania, where they will play the hosts on November 3 in an international friendly. The team will later proceed to Marseille for the World Cup qualifiers. Chasanga is back in the country after plying his professional trade with Polish side Orkan Sochaczew, while Reeve caught Snook’s eye during the Stanbic National Sevens Series and the ongoing Impala Floodlit tournament. Reeve, who is originally from Wales, was named in a tentative Kenya Sevens squad of 44 players to prepare for Safari Sevens and the 2018/2019 World Rugby Sevens Series. The utility back resides in Nanyuki and is serving as a British Army Officer. Repechage will also see the return of influential former skipper and Kenya Harlequin lock Wilson K’Opondo, who has prominently featured for his club at the Impala Floodlit tournament. Chisanga and K’Opondo, who were regulars in the team, missed the entire Gold Cup that was used as the Africa qualifier for the Rugby World Cup due 2019 in Japan, while Reeve will be making his international debut. Snook has included four Kenya Sevens regulars in his squad of 30.They are Collins Injera, Nelson Oyoo, Samuel Oliech, who makes a return to the Simbas since 2015, alongside former Kenya Sevens skipper Andrew Amonde. The Simbas will launch their quest against Canada on November 11, before meeting Hong Kong on November 17. The Simbas will wrap up their campaign against Germany on November 23. The winner of the round robin competition will secure a ticket to compete against New Zealand, South Africa, Italy and Namibia in Pool B of next year’s tournament in Japan. Simbas Squad Forwards: Patrick Ouko (Homeboyz), Moses Amusala (KCB), Joseph Odero (Kabras Sugar RFC), Hillary Mwanjilwa (Kabras Sugar), Ephraim Oduor (Kabras Sugar), Colman Were (Kabras Sugar), Philip Ikambili (Homeboyz RFC), Oliver Mangeni (KCB), Wilson Kopondo (Kenya Harlequins), Malcolm Onsando (Kenya Harlequins), Simon Muniafu (Impala Saracens), Andrew Omonde(KCB), George Nyambua(Kabras Sugar RFC), Dalmus Chituyi(Homeboyz), Elkeans Musonye(Strathmore Leos), Joshua Chisanga (Homeboyz), Davis Chenge (KCB), Martin Owilah (KCB) Backs: Samson Onsomu (Impala Saracens), Mohammed Omollo (Homeboyz), Sammy Oliech (Impala Saracens), Darwin Mukidza (KCB), Leo Seje Owade (Impala Saracens), Peter Kilonzo (KCB), Collins Injera (Mwamba), Nelson Oyoo (Nakuru), Felix Ayange (Kabras Sugar), William Ambaka (Kenya Harlequins), Tony Onyango (Homeboyz), William Reeve (Kenya Harlequins) Team Management: Ian Snook (Head Coach), Murray Roulston(Coach), Wangila Simiyu (Team Manager), Christopher Makachia (Team Physiotherapist), Charles Ngovi (Assistant Coach), Dominique Habimana (Assistant Coach), James Ondiege (Team Doctor) Edwin Boit (Team Analyst) Simbas' Fixtures Sunday, November 11 Kenya v Canada – 6:30pm Saturday, November 17, Kenya v Hong Kong – 4pm Friday, November 23, Kenya v Germany – 8pm  