From the 1990s to January 2018, Elburgon and Maji Mazuri towns in Nakuru and Baringo counties enjoyed a vibrant economy supported by the lucrative timber industry. The towns stood as citadels of the timber business in the South Rift region with pride for their artistic wooden and tin houses. But early this year, the government banned logging in public forests to the detriment of the towns that heavily depended on the lumbering industry. Today, the towns are a pale shadows of their former selves. SLOW BUSINESS Rusty business premises, low population and slow business characterise the once vibrant towns. A spot check by the Nation revealed that hundreds of residents especially the youth in the Rift Valley towns, who depended on logging, sawmilling and charcoal burning, have been left jobless. Those who worked as casual workers at Timsales Timber Industry in Elburgon, for instance, were suspended. At least 15,000 people were affected in Elburgon town. Mr John Kung’u, who worked in a sawmill in Elburgon town, said things have taken a turn for the worse. 20 SAWMILLS CLOSED "Since the ban was imposed early this year, business in the town dropped drastically as nearly 20 sawmills closed down," said Mr Kung’u. Mr James Mbugua, who runs a petrol station in the town, said he used to do remarkable sales before the ban. "I used to sell 5,000 litres a week, compared to the 400 litres I’m now selling a day," he said. "The government needs to lift the ban which has also led to an increase in the crime rate and poverty in the region," he added. Many businesses in the area have been adversely affected with a big drop in income recorded. NO SCHOOL FEES Families which depended on logging have also been affected as parents cannot raise school fees for their children. Mr Patrick Ng'ang'a, the headteacher of D.E.B. Primary School in Elburgon, said many pupils had been sent home for school fees. Mr Ng'ang'a said absenteeism has increased as poverty has hit many families affecting learning. "Learners who used to carry packed lunch to school are now suffering,” said the administrator, adding that some of the pupils now wear wornout uniforms. He urged the government to consider lifting the ban. CASUAL JOBS Mr John Munyui, another worker at a local sawmill, said he now does casual jobs, mostly on farms in order to earn a living and ensure that his family is catered for. Mr Munyui said he used to earn Sh1,000 daily loading trucks transporting timber or logs. "I currently earn Sh200 when I’m lucky to get casual work, a job one cannot rely on as chances of getting it are limited,” he said. Ms Jacintah Mburu said she closed her food kiosk after the logging ban hit the business. She said it was hard to continue as she was making losses. It is also not easy for the Kenya Forest Service (KFS) department. "The number of taxpayers has dropped since the ban came into effect," said a KFS official who sought anonymity. He said the number of those who had acquired licences to operate the businesses were small-scale sawmillers. "Only the big fish were left in the business," he said. BUILDING COURSES Technical institutions which taught building courses and practicals have also faced a big challenge following the ban. "Students pursuing certificates in building technology, carpentry and joinery who sat their Kenya National Examinations Council examinations paid more," said an official. Due to joblessness, the wave of crime in the area has also risen with a number of killings reported in the area in the past four months. The killings sparked fears of the existence of a killer gang. “The crime rate had gone down because the residents, especially young people, had something to do thanks to the timber industry,” said Mr Dominic Kimani, a resident. Local leaders, among them Molo MP Kuria Kimani, have urged the government to lift the ban. “The economy of Elburgon town was mainly driven by the timber industry,” said Mr Kuria. HOME OF SAWMILLS Elburgon was home to dozens of sawmills harvesting trees from the Eastern Mau Forest. The youths, whose main source of livelihood was timber trade, have appealed to President Uhuru Kenyatta to help them secure other sources of income. At Maji Mazuri town in Southern Baringo, the situation is the same. The formerly vibrant town has been reduced to a sleepy village trading centre with dilapidated buildings. The Nation learnt that close to 1,000 youths from Elburgon, Molo, Total, Makutano and Maji Mazuri lost jobs. The youths worked as loaders, power saw operators, transporters and millers. Others affected were people who performed manual duties such as clearing milling zones.   Judge rules that dispute should have been filed at the Environment and Lands Court.