The company letter said “Sit back and relax and enjoy another year’s peace of mind”. Why? Because the insurance policy protecting my TV equipment was due for renewal but this would happen automatically and I didn’t have to move a muscle. Further down, the letter highlighted Automatic Renewal, stating: “Annual premium £137.88 (Sh18,000). Previously you paid £125.88.” So this long-time customer was being rewarded for his loyalty by paying the insurer £12 per year more. Coincidentally, my letter arrived just as the organisation Citizens Advice reported that customers who stayed with their insurance supplier over the years were losing an average of £877 per person. Areas affected were mainly mobile, broadband, savings, home insurance and mortgage deals. CONTRACT Everyone knows what the answer is: “Shop around”, call up competing companies and secure a better price. However, many elderly and vulnerable people are not competent to engage in such activities. Citizens Advice said older people were disproportionately affected by the increases. It knew a couple in their nineties who were paying £1,000 a year too much for their home insurance. The Competition and Markets Authority said it would “carefully consider the concerns” which Citizens Advice had raised. As for this customer, I decided to seek peace of mind on my own terms. Turning to a page of useful questions and answers, I saw one that explained how to cancel the contract. Guess what I did next! * * * * * WEDDING The average cost of a wedding, including honeymoon, has risen in the United Kingdom by 19 percent in the past year and now stands at £32,000, according to a poll by the website Hitched. The most expensive item is the venue at £5,221, with the honeymoon coming second at £4,545. Guests total an average 82 at the wedding and 106 at an evening reception, and feeding them costs £4,151. The ring comes in at £2,657 and the bride’s dress is £1,321. At least 60 percent of couples require help from their families to pay for the big day. By contrast, a traditional funeral with burial is £4,257. * * * * * POLITE Having lived in a lot of places around the world, I would say British people are normally quite helpful and polite. Not the delivery driver for the Asda supermarket chain who refused to help a pregnant mother carry bags of shopping to her home upstairs. Amy Natasha Botten, aged 20 and 20 weeks pregnant with her second child, shared a video online showing £200 of shopping bags at the foot of two flights of stairs. She can be heard pleading with the driver for assistance. “Can you not help me with this last little bit because my little boy up there is crying his eyes out.” He responds, “I’d rather not.” In a comment, Ms Botten said, “This should not be happening to anyone, putting aside bad health, disabled, pregnant. I had no choice but to leave my son on his own, crying.” Asda confirmed that drivers should offer to take shopping deliveries “into your home”. A statement said, “We always try to offer our customers great service but we got it wrong on this occasion and we are truly sorry.” The store apologised and gave the lady a bottle of champagne and a bouquet of flowers. * * * * * SCAM Last week’s article about phone scammers produced the following true story: Irish-Scottish folk singer Marc Gunn received a call from a man asking to book Marc’s band for his wedding. The caller agreed to pay the normal 50 percent deposit upfront, but in fact sent a cheque for nearly double the amount; he then asked for a refund to settle the difference. A couple of days later, the man emailed Gunn that the wedding was off and he wanted all the money back. According to Gunn, the first cheque “seemed to have cleared “after three days and his group sent back the $2,500. Inevitably, the original cheque bounced, leaving Gunn and his group $2,500 poorer. * * * * * Two insurance clerks and their boss are going for lunch when they come across an ancient lamp. One rub and a genie appears. He says he will grant them each one wish. Says the first clerk, “I want to go water skiing in the Bahamas.” Pouff, he’s gone. The second says, “I want to be a millionaire in Florida.” And so he is. Says the manager, “I want those two back in the office after lunch.” Motto: Never let your boss have the last word. Gerryo69@hotmail.com  