MAKING SILAGE USING INOCULANTS I once read in Seeds of Gold a story on silage making where inoculants were used, which were far much better than molasses. Please advise, the inoculants are not in the market. Sam Mwirigi Inyingi, Timau Meru Silage making utilises the science of fermentation under no air. This can also be achieved by use of good silage inoculants that give faster and more efficient fermentation resulting in less energy and dry matter loss. In simpler terms, they improve silage quality by helping preserve nutrients and dry matter in the ensiled feed to be utilised later by livestock to increase production of more milk or meat. However, caution should be taken during application as you should only use the inoculants based on the prescriptions on the labels. Consult Seth Oluoch, available on 0713331452 who has worked closely with The Udder Agribusiness on using Ecosyl, one of the inoculants in the market currently. Felix Akatch Opinya, Department of Animal Science, Egerton University. **** BOMA RHODES HAY MARKET ABROAD We have 6,000 bales of Boma Rhodes and we are looking for export market. They are of high quality, duly certified by the Agriculture department. Can you help to find a market? M.C Patel The export market is lucrative because products fetch premium prices. However, penetrating the European market with any agricultural product remains a challenge, given the many procedures and quality standards needed. With the Boma Rhodes duly certified by the State Department of Agriculture as you’ve mentioned, you can easily sell in the Eastern African market. You can also advertise in Seeds of Gold to get market. Felix Akatch Opinya, Department of Animal Science, Egerton University. **** TEACH ME BASICS IN AQUACULTURE I am Geofrey Maina from Embu. I have acquired a parcel of land just next to a water source. One of the enterprises I want to venture into is aquaculture. Kindly advise me on seed selection, feeds and water quality and link me to a reliable researcher, who can help in implementing the project. Aquaculture is one of the fastest growing food sectors globally. In Kenya, the sector promises to ensure continuous fish supply to supplement capture fisheries that have been continuously recording decreased catch. The dos and don’ts in aquaculture takes into consideration the factors that will ensure increased profits while cutting the losses. Based on your region, with the warm temperatures experienced, an aquaculture enterprise is viable.Of critical concern is seeds. Ensure you acquire your fingerlings from the right breed, and they should be of good quality and supplied by accredited hatchery for traceability reasons. Feeds also play a major role in aquaculture. When you use quality feeds, then fish will reach market size at the required time. Think of both commercial and local feeds available. Finally, water quality is among the important factors influencing production but in most cases, it has been overlooked by farmers until when it affects negatively their production. Ensure water is of good quality and lime when necessary, control pond fertilisation, change water, have good aeration, offer quality feeds and observe feeding schedule. For detailed guidance on aquaculture, contact 0716921364 or write to akidivaaquafish@gmail.com. Alex Akidiva, Department of Biological Sciences, Aquaculture Farm, Egerton University. **** GREENHOUSES, PAWPAW FARMS FOR LEASING I have three greenhouses measuring 8 by 15m and two 5 by 10m, all newly erected in Malindi. I also have an open space with pawpaws on a 100 by 100ft land. I would like to lease to a willing farmer. Njoki Please contact 0721205576 from Kilifi to come and survey the greenhouses or send someone to you. Peter Caleb Otieno, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. **** GROWING ARROWROOTS I have interest in growing arrowroots for commercial purposes. Would you please guide me on how to go about it, in terms of establishment, care and marketing? Do they have to be grown along river banks? Are there varieties which can withstand conditions like those of mesophytes? Levis Mwangi Please contact 0723224663, an expert in arrowroot varieties and cultural practices from Egerton University. He works on mesophyte arrowroots. Peter Caleb Otieno, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. **** WHERE TO FIND GRAPEFRUIT SEEDLINGS Where can I get red grapefruit seedlings for planting? I would also like to know if I am right planting citrus fruits in Ngong. Farmer Horticulture Research Institute at Kalro, Kandara in Thika does propagation of citrus and other tropical and subtropical fruits and I believe they can guide you on how to get grapefruit seedling and the prices. You will also be told whether they can perform well in Ngong. Contact the liaison office of the station on 0720836587. Peter Caleb Otieno, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. **** NANDI FLAME SEEDLINGS Despite intensive searching on the Internet, I have been unable to find a supplier of Nandi Flame tree seedlings. I would appreciate if you could offer me addresses/contacts where I can order them. Norbert KoebkeNyati Road, Greenpark, Naivasha You can get Nandi flame tree seedlings from Kenya Forestry Research Institute (Kefri). Contact them on 0722285923. Peter Caleb Otieno, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. **** I WANT QUALITY MACADAMIA, AVOCADO SEEDLINGS I intend to grow avocados and macadamia in North Kinangop for commercial purposes. Please advise if it is viable considering the weather and the soil (mainly black cotton). What is required and where will I get the seedlings? Kariuki, Ndunyu Njeru, Kinangop Macadamia seedlings can be found at Kalro, Kandara (Horticulture Research Institute). The station does grafting and sales quality macadamia seedlings. However, the seedling are on high demand that you can only order to get a number before they supply later. For weather and soil requirement (mainly black cotton soil) for macadamia, please get more expertise advice from the liaison office on 0720836587. Now for avocado seedlings, the same institute does research on tropical fruits grafting and budding. Avocado seedling is one of them, commercially produced and sold to farmers. You will be directed for the type of variety for North Kinangop. Peter Caleb Otieno, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University.   For questions on agriculture, farming innovations and agribusinesses, send your queries to satnation@ke.nationmedia.com