Flowers will brighten your landscape and give your home garden a new and refreshing look. But why should one have a garden? “Nature is beauty in itself. There is peace around nature and beauty for aesthetic purposes. The garden can serve you for aesthetics, as an environment for relaxing and even as a source of food,” explains Mary Kangara, a designer based in Thika, also proprietor of Mary Maya decor, a business that deals in both indoor and outdoor decorations. According to Ms Kangara, a full range of flower pots and urns will be easy to display but there is a whole lot more that you can do with your porch, patio or back yard garden. Tyres Tyres can be painted in different colours and placed in stacks or at different places to function as perfect planters. You just need to get a plant some of which are really affordable. “With the help of a landscape designer, you can then be able to organise them in a unique way,” she says. Old boots/Shoes “This is a great idea for homeowners that have no or not enough garden space to buy containers. Shoes make easy planters for herbs, shallow rooted leafy veggies and succulents that do not require much space,” Ms Kangara explains. Old Furniture and logs Instead of throwing away old furniture or letting it lie idle, how about transforming it all into a unique bed or planters for your garden? “There are lots of creative ways you can repurpose old furniture to turn it to flower beds or planters. Antique pieces are easy to fit as they easily blend with surroundings,” she says. Classical or metallic chairs function well by drilling a hole in the middle and placing a planter in the hole. An old chair can also be turned into a mini garden for succulents flowers which do not need to take up a lot of water. Old wheel barrow/Carts With a few touch ups and refurbishments, an old wheel barrow can become an exceptional planter for your garden. The good thing about a wheel barrow is that it can be moved around the garden and especially during special occasions when you have garden parties or when you want to have a different kind of look in your space.   Whether it’s with flowers, herbs or furniture, the possibilities are limitless.