Harambee Starlets will be hoping for a favourable draw when the Confederation of African Football (Caf) conducts the draw for the 2018 Africa Women Cup of Nations (Awcon) in Accra, Ghana on Sunday night. In the last edition where Kenya made its debut, Starlets entered the tournament as the lowest ranked side and were drawn against 10-time champions Nigeria and three-time silver medallists Ghana who occupied positions one and two in Africa respectively. David Ouma’s charges failed to register a win in their maiden appearance in 2016 after being hammered 3-1 by Ghana and Mali and losing 4-0 to Nigeria who went on to retain the trophy. Kenya, the last team to qualify for the 2018 edition after Caf disqualified Equatorial Guinea for fielding an ineligible player, is currently at position 18 in Africa and 129 worldwide. Together with Nigeria, Ghana, Mali, Cameroon and South Africa, they were all in Cameroon two years ago. Algeria and Zambia are the new faces this year. Both countries last competed at the biennial tournament in 2014 in Namibia. Nigeria and Ghana, who still occupy the same positions on the continent, are 38th and 47th respectively in the world. Cameroon are third in Africa and 49th in the world. This year’s hosts Ghana will be placed in Pool “A” as the top seed. Defending champions Nigeria will lead Pool “B”. The eight-team competition doubles up as a qualifier for 2019 FIFA Women World Cup, which will be held in France from June 7 to July 7. The top three teams will proceed to the World Cup. Meanwhile, Starlets preparations are still shrouded in uncertainty barely a month to the competition that runs from November 17 to December 1. According to Football Kenya Federation (FKF) President Nick Mwendwa the federation is facing a financial crunch but they are determined to take the girls into residential training next week. “I’m happy that Starlets will be at Awcon for the second consecutive time and we are going to do our best to ensure that they will be in Ghana,” Mwendwa told Nation Sport. Pressed on about FKF’s plan for Starlets as well as the logistics for the trip to Ghana, Mwendwa said: “I will do this on Monday.” Head coach David Ouma is expected to name his provisional squad next week with the foreign legion of Esse Akida, Mary Kinuthia, Christine Wafula likely to feature.   The decision will see Starlets make a second appearance in the competition.