Ride-hailing firm Uber has introduced new security features on its app that allow riders and drivers direct access to emergency response services, adding to a raft of measures put in place recently by the tech giant to boost safety. Uber is set to rollout the new measures over the next few weeks to its app users in Africa including Kenya, Middle East and Europe. The new features on the safety kit include backup contacts that will enable riders to save up to five contacts, whom they can share trip information with. It will also include an emergency button to trigger private security response from the firm’s third-party responders. The kit’s safety centre will ensure that riders and drivers will have access to information about the trip driver and the car, customer care services, trip GPS-tracking. Speed alerts will remind drivers and delivery-partners to maintain recommended road limits. The toolkit aims to raise the bar on safety and increase transparency, accountability and peace of mind for all users. “With more than 15 million trips on the Uber app every day, there is nothing more important than the safety of riders, drivers and couriers. Over the last year we’ve been working to develop innovative products that increase transparency, accountability and peace of mind for all users,” said Uber’s Global Head of Safety Product, Sachin Kansal. “The rollout of our new Safety Toolkit features across Europe, Middle East and Africa is the next step in making sure that we’re helping everyone stay safe and connected, wherever you might be,” The safety measures are meant to improve Uber’s image following sexual harassment claims that have rocked the firm since inception. Uber has been accused over poor driver vetting. To boost security, in June last year Uber rolled out a feature that runs real-time security checks every time drivers log in, to protect their accounts from fraudsters and boost safety of riders using its service. The security feature requires drivers logging in to share their image, which is then verified against Uber’s records through facial recognition technology.   Taxi drivers will on Tuesday down their tools in a push for implementation of better pricing by the dominant app companies.