Nikola Kavazovic is the new coach of AFC Leopards. The Serb, who was born in Belgrade in the former Yugoslavia, has put pen-to-paper to a two year contract, taking over from Rodolfo Zapata who left Ingwe last month after a spate of poor results. The 43-year-old tactician will jet in on November 5 together with his assistant, Mark Valsiljevic who doubles up as a fitness trainer and match analyst. “Our new coach will join us on November 5 early enough for the new pre-season,” said club Secretary General Oscar Igaida. Igaida said Kavazovic, the third coach for Ingwe this year, emerged the best from the final shortlist of three. Twenty coaches had applied for the job including local tacticians. Kavazovic is the immediate former coach of top Botswana side Township Rollers. He joined Rollers in July 2017 and won a double - Botswana Premier League and the Mascom Top 8 Cup - in his first season at the club. Besides local achievements, Kavazovic also guided the Botswana giants to the group stage of the Caf Champions League for the first time. He eliminated Sudan's El Merreikh and Tanzania's Young Africans on his way to the group stages where Rollers were drawn in Group "A" alongside Al Ahly of Egypt, Esperance de Tunis of Tunisia and KCCA of Uganda. He resigned from Township Rollers on October 16 this year leaving them in command of the log with a record six wins and a draw. Meanwhile, Igaida assured members and Ingwe fans that the National Executive Committee remains intact despite the purported take over by a faction led by Mathew Opwora. “These are criminal elements consisting individuals who are not fully paid up members of the club intending to destabilize the club for selfish gains. The purported chairman is well known for embezzling club funds,” he said. “We wish to inform members that the matter has been reported to the police as this are imposters masquerading as officials with intentions of defrauding the club, its membership and the general public. They face full force of the law, he added. According to the club’s constitution, the next elections are slated for June next year.  