Kenyans hold their breath today as the national soccer team Harambee Stars take on Ethiopia in the Group “F” return leg of their 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifying match at Kasarani. It has all the billings of a thriller. Harambee Stars, who drew 0-0 with Ethiopia away on Wednesday, only need a victory to see the country return to Africa’s top soccer showpiece after a 14-year absence. The Stars and Ethiopia tie on four points each while Ghana is third with three points. Sierra Leone, which has been banned by world football governing body Fifa, trails with three points. SH50 MILLION We want to call on Kenyans to turn out in numbers and cheer Harambee Stars to victory. The move by the government to waive the entry fee for the game with Deputy President William Ruto promising Sh50 million for the team if it qualifies is commendable in the short term but raises fundamental questions about sports governance. It is a tragedy that the government and Football Kenya Federation (FKF) have woken up to the reality that the team is on the verge of qualifying just this late. All along, the team was being treated to all sorts of promises that were never honoured. UNPAID SALARIES Just before travelling to Ethiopia, Harambee Stars coach Sebastien Migne had threatened to quit over unpaid salaries. Earlier, players had turned down call up to the team over lack of motivation. It is awkward that Harambee Stars do not even have an official team bus to ferry them to matches. One would have expected the government to have pumped the said Sh50 million into the team’s preparations instead of giving the promise at this late hour. As a country, we treat our national teams badly. They deserve better. DEMORALISED As usual, the challenge is always cash and when it is provided, officials often steal it and leave players stranded, starving and demoralised. Yet with the outpouring of support now, there is evidence that the government can fully support the sport. FKF must seek multiple sources of funding while the government ought to establish a predictable system of supporting sports. We wish Harambee Stars all the best.  