From the moment Winx’s connections decided to forego a trip to Royal Ascot, every aspect of her training schedule, has been about peaking for an unprecedented fourth Ladbrokes Cox Plate overthrow. Winx’s place in the archives is already assured, with 28 consecutive wins and 21 Group 1s. First or second will take her past the $20 million (£11m/€12.4m) barrier. But to win a fourth Cox Plate might just be the greatest achievement of all. It is Australia’s premier weight-for-age event, skirting around a tight and uniquely cambered track. Never been done before. Phar Lap, Flight, Tobin Bronze, Sunline, Northerly, Fields Of Omagh, and, So You Think, won it twice. Kingston Town and Winx, three times. To clamp four, would be such an acquisition in itself, also her tenth consecutive Group 1. ANTICIPATED RACE An elevation from the company she currently keeps with Zenyatta, Frankel and Hurricane Fly on nine, will explain why this is the most anticipated race on earth, right now. So heavily has everything revolved on this issue, that Chris Waller described Winx as becoming immortal. “Realistically only two things can beat her, bad luck or a champion - waiting to pounce on her, provided there aren't too many traffic problems. Like anything in sport you need the bounce of the ball to go your way. Nothing is being taken for granted. Does Waller see Saeed Bin Suroor’s, Benbatl, her chief market rival, as a potential hero? “He’s a good horse, although not the best. Typically a benchmark, but has to reach to a whole other level to beat Winx. LADBROKES STAKES Pat Cosgrave, who rode him in the Ladbrokes Stakes, is replaced in the Cox Plate by Oisin Murphy, believes Benbatl could be very very close at the wire. Bin Suroor said: “I have plenty respect for the mare, but mine is really well. We're happy to compete against her. A massive test brewing.” It is still far from an easy situation. Avilius and Humidor, have a some brilliant form. Also, Ryan Moore is in town to ride Aidan O’ O’Brien’s Melbourne Cup talker, Rostropovich. They think he will run into a place as a preparation for the Melbourne Cup.  