Opposition leader Raila Odinga has said the Big Four Agenda was not the key issue in his talks with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Mr Odinga explained on Monday that his handshake with the president, which he also said was not the secret many thought it was, was aimed at taking Kenya from the gutter. CORRUPTION Mr Odinga noted that Kenya is plagued with rampant corruption, division, insecurity, poverty and joblessness. "The fight against corruption is what is causing jitters among those who fear because they may be implicated," the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) leader said during a National Super Alliance (Nasa) function in Mavoko, Machakos County. Mr Odinga also addressed the controversial taxes matter, reiterating that the president had no option but to impose them as he had reached the end of the road. He noted, however, the conditions that he set for supporting the levies, including a fully fledged fight against graft. "If these aren't addressed by next year (one year after the handshake), the deal will be off," he said. Mr Odinga said he did not want to comment on issues concerning Deputy President William Ruto, who earlier told him to leave the corruption war to independent institutions mandating with fighting it. "Mimi sitaongea [kuhusu] mambo ya watu wengine (I will not discuss matters to do with other people)," he said in Kiswahili, in reference to the DP's utterances on Sunday. On Sunday, Mr Ruto accused Mr Odinga of being insincere about the handshake and plotting division in Jubilee Party, the main goal allegedly being the DP's removal. NASA REVIVAL Wiper Democratic Movement leader Kalonzo Musyoka asked politician Johnstone Muthama to meet soon with other leaders in Nasa and discuss its rejuvenation. He said the coalition is "still alive and not dead" as many believe. The other two members of the coalition are Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya party leader) and Musalia Mudavadi (Amani National Congress leader). Kajiado Central Member of Parliament (MP) Memusi Kanchori said Mr Odinga is not a member of Jubilee so he cannot undermine Mr Ruto as he has claimed. "The deputy president is the one sabotaging the handshake between the president and opposition leader," he said and asked the two to remain focused and ignore sideshows. He spoke at the opening of Katani Hospital, an event which several opposition leaders attended. Mr Muthama, who attended the event, claimed Mr Ruto's main goal is to ensure Nasa leaders do not see eye to eye. He said that in the next 10 days, Nasa will solve its problems and emerge as a strong unit. Former Kathiani MP Wavinya Ndeti said she fully supports a referendum. She asked the DP to quit the sideshows, which she said are diverting attention from the key issue of development as a result of the handshake. On Sunday, the Wiper leader said he will oppose constitutional amendments to do away with the Senate and county assemblies as they are key to devolution.   Ruto says his critics should not pretend to be the ones spearheading the fight against corruption.