Tharaka Nithi Governor Muthomi Njuki has defended his economic adviser Ng’ang’a Munyu, the former Rural Electrification Authority (Rea) chief executive, against corruption claims in a Sh6 billion scandal. Mr Munyu is being investigated by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) for alleged manipulation of tenders, misleading the Rea board and procuring faulty tenders during his tenure. POLITICS Speaking at the county headquarters in Kathwana on Friday, Mr Njuki said the corruption accusations are "boardroom politics" meant to ruin the reputation of his employee. “What my economic adviser is going through is just sheer politics,” he said, describing Mr Munyu as a man of dignity and telling off people calling for his resignation. The governor also rubbished claims by some residents that Mr Munyu controls the county government. Mr Njuki further said he will not bow to pressure by the media and residents, whom he accused of trying to intimidate him by insinuating that he has employed a corrupt person under the EACC's radar. The anti-graft agency launched the investigation about two weeks ago after a report by the board implicated Mr Munyu. The allegations were that there were massive irregularities in the procurement of solar Photo Voltaic systems for primary schools from 2013 to 2017, the period that Mr Munyu was the boss, leading to loss of public funds amounting Sh6.6 billion. Mr Munyu is also accused of working with close allies in the government to employ people without conducting interviews, which is against the procurement law. The report further stated that the former Chief Executive Officer awarded tenders to several companies for which he is a shareholder and diverted funds meant for school electrification to other projects. The document implicated Mr Munyu in using the chief manager in charge of procurement to manipulate the tendering process to fit companies selected by him.   EACC has for the whole of last week been investigating the management of Rea.