Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa has changed tune after weeks attacking opposition leader Raila Odinga. Speaking on Friday, Ms Jumwa, who has emerged as the face of the anti-Raila campaigns at the Coast, declared that she respects Mr Odinga as her party leader. In an interview with Saturday Nation, Ms Jumwa revealed that she was in constant communication with Mr Odinga. Ms Jumwa’s apparent about-turn came following reports that she, alongside her Msambweni counterpart Mohammed Dori, were in talks with Mr Odinga to seek a truce. WILLIAM RUTO When asked whether she was called by the ODM leader over the same, Ms Jumwa retorted, "Which truce? That only comes when you are at loggerheads with your leader. In this case, I and Raila are not enemies. "He calls me and I call him and talk. I have a lot of respect for him as my party leader." Ms Jumwa, Mr Dori and several other MPs from the region were elected on Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) tickets but have since switched camps and are currently backing Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid. Ms Jumwa and Mr Dori have in particular defied summons by the ODM leadership to show cause why disciplinary action should not be taken against them for flirting with a rival candidate. COMPLAINT Only last month, they told off Suna East MP Junet Mohammed over threats that they would be de-whipped over their association with Mr Ruto. But in the interview, Ms Jumwa refuted reports of a rift between her and Mr Odinga, saying it was a creation of the media and should be ignored. She added that Mr Odinga was yet to officially complain to her about her association with Mr Ruto. "If there are concerns then it is Mr Odinga who could have called me to tell me his concerns. Without him communicating to me directly over my decisions, then I am OK with it, " she said. "There are people out there who want to see me and my leader going our different ways but I want to tell them that we are not enemies with the former Prime Minister,” she added. PRESIDENCY Ms Jumwa’s latest position is set to raise even more eyebrows in the pro-Ruto camp given the prominent roles she and Mr Dori have been playing in the DP’s tours of the region in recent months. Last week, Mr Ruto was at the Coast for a five-day visit where Ms Jumwa led the other MPs supporting him in denouncing Mr Odinga, telling him that they had already settled on Mr Ruto as their preferred candidate in the 2022.  