A tycoon charged with attempting to bribe Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has been allowed to fly to the United Kingdom to attend to his daughter’s medical needs. Mombasa Senior Principal Magistrate Henry Nyakweba allowed Praful Kumar to leave the country for a month, dismissing allegations by prosecutors that the suspect was planning to run away. “I have no reason to even imagine that the accused person’s intended travel to UK is a manoeuvre to escape, the reason given for the intention to travel is to a company a sick daughter. Though no medical documents were given, I do not think that a reasonable parent in his senses can feign illness of his own child,” Mr Nyakweba said. 'FLIGHT RISK' Senior Mombasa Assistant Director of Public Prosecutions Ingonga Mulele had asked the court to deny Mr Kumar leave to travel, arguing that he was a flight risk and was likely not to return to Kenya. Through an affidavit by the Ethics and Anti–Corruption Commission, the prosecutor said that the suspect had not provided any authentic medical records to prove the alleged ill health of his daughter in Kenya that would necessitate the medical treatment abroad. Mr Ingonga told the court prosecutors were apprehensive that the suspect was planning to jump bail and avoid prosecution. But the magistrate dismissed their application, arguing that the fear of the accused jumping bond had been overtaken by events and that payment for travel was made in June before the offence was committed. “Since a return ticket has been shown to the court, I do not think that it will be fair to deny him leave to travel. His absence from the jurisdiction will not cause any delay in his trial since the same has not even started as the pre-trial process has not been completed as the State is still in the process of compiling evidence,” he said. The suspect, who is out on a Sh500,000 bond, had applied for leave to fly to the UK for a month. Mr Kumar made the application under a certificate of urgency, saying he needed to fly to UK because his daughter will undergo treatment from October 22 to November 22. The tycoon, arrested in Kilifi on August 20, has denied offering a Sh5 million bribe to the governor to approve and continue building his Grand Monar Hotel in Gigiri. The case will be heard on November 30.   Kumar was seeking approval of Grand Monar Hotel in Gigiri, Nairobi, which is under construction.