The High court in Nakuru has ordered Prisons authorities to produce a medical report of a former principal accused of killing her husband in Kiambu County. Justice Joel Ngugi directed the warden in charge of Nakuru GK Prison to file a comprehensive diagnosis and treatment of Ms Jane Muthoni. Ms Muthoni is the widow of the former principal of Kiiru Boys High School, Mr Solomon Mwangi, whose body was found dumped in a thicket in Kiambu County in November 2016, days after he was reported missing. HEARING The former Principal at Icaciri Girls Secondary School has been charged with the murder of Mr Mwangi alongside another suspect, Mr Isaac Nganga. The case that was slated for hearing Thursday failed to start after it emerged that the medical report had not been filed in court as per the orders issued last week. In his orders, the judge had directed the prison boss to ensure that Ms Muthoni is escorted to hospital for treatment and also file the report of the diagnosis in court. When she appeared before court, she confirmed that she had been examined by doctors who also prescribed to her some medication. Her lawyer Francis Njanja requested the court to allow the family to buy her some of the medicines that were not available at the hospital. This was the third time the case was being mentioned before the Nakuru High Court after it was transferred from Kiambu High Court. The prosecution have, on several occasions, found themselves unable to proceed with the hearing in their bid to unravel the mystery surrounding the shocking murder of Mr Mwangi. On two mentions, Ms Muthoni has been seeking to be freed on bond claiming that she wanted to take care of her children whom she said had been sent home for defaulting payment of school fees. TRIAL Ms Muthoni further argued that her health was deteriorating and that she needed close medical attention, which the prison authorities were reluctant to provide. In opposing the application Thursday, the prosecution complained that the suspects were intentionally delaying the trial while seeking release on bond. “I am concerned that the accused persons are always not ready for the hearing, yet they are ready to proceed with the application for bond. I urge the court to dismiss their application,” said State Counsel Cathreen Mwaniki Ms Mwaniki further told the court that she needed the medical superintendent at the Nakuru Level Five Hospital to confirm whether the condition of Ms Muthoni would allow her to continue with the hearing. Ms Muthoni has been remanded at the Lang’ata Women’s Prison while Mr Ng’anga is held at the Nairobi Remand Home. The matter will be mentioned on December 19 for further directions.   Ms Muthoni was Principal at Icaciri Secondary School before her arrest.