Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) deputy party leader Hassan Joho on Monday led the ODM brigade in drumming up support for the party's candidate Mr Ochillo Ayacko in the upcoming senate seat by-election. The Mombasa County governor who was accompanied by Suna East MP Junet Mohamed, Migori Woman Rep Pamela Odhiambo, Rongo MP Paul Abuor among other ODM politicians, traversed Kuria West, Kuria East and later Nyatike and Rongo sub-counties. The leaders asked residents to vote Mr Ayacko, arguing that he is the best candidate to represent the county at the Senate. RIGHT CANDIDATE "We have come here to urge you to vote for the right candidate and ODM as presented that candidate for you. Mr Ayacko has the best qualities to represent your interests at the senate," said Mr Joho while addressing residents of Ntimaru in Kuria East. He added: "Ignore those other candidates who are being fronted by enemies of ODM and vote for Mr Ayacko." Ms Odhiambo said: "You residents of Kuria should not be left behind. Walk with us. On October 8, wake up early and go cast your vote for Mr Ayacko and be sure your interests will be well taken care of. Mr Ayacko will ensure equitable distribution of county resources so that even you people get to eat the fruits of devolution." The ODM leaders used the campaigns to hit out at Deputy President (DP) William Ruto who on Sunday claimed that ODM leader Raila Odinga is using his political truce with president Uhuru Kenyatta to wreck the Jubilee party and scuttle his plans to ascend to the presidency in 2022. ENGINEERED HANDSHAKE "We telling the DP to respect Mr Odinga. How can he dare call Mr Odinga a conman? We are going to teach him a lesson of his life. Let him continue roaming the country but when time will come,  he will see dust," said Mr Joho. "We are telling Mr Ruto to keep off the handshake. Mr Odinga and Mr Kenyatta are the ones who engineered the handshake which has brought peace and tranquility in the country. Those against it should keep off," added Mr Joho. Mr Mohamed said: "We will not allow someone to keep abusing our party leader. The person who claims to have been sent away from ODM is known to hop from one party to another and now is using all manner of tricks to leave Jubilee. We want to tell him to respect Mr Odinga because he is not his equal." DOUBLED EFFORTS As the senate race enters home-stretch, two leading candidates Mr Ayacko and Federal Party of Kenya's Eddy Gicheru Oketch have doubled their efforts to bag the crucial Kuria votes, which are expected to be the swing votes in the race. The search for Kuria votes has however taken a new twist after Kuria East MP Marwa Kitayama of Jubilee backtracked on his earlier move to support Mr Oketch. Mr Kitayama has now thrown his weight behind Mr Ayacko. "I have decided to support Mr Ayacko going forward to the October 8 by-election,’’ Mr Kitayama said. He added: "Let everyone speak for himself. As for me I support Ayacko and I am not mincing words. I am in Jubilee but Mr Ayacko is our best senator,’’ said Kitayama. FREE TO VOTE But Kuria West MP Mathias Nyambabe Robi has declared support for Mr Oketch. Mr Kitayama has great influence in the region as he controls the two biggest clans of Bakira and Nyabasi. This comes as Solomon Hodo of (PDP) pulled out of the race at the weekend to back Mr Oketch, as the vote hunt takes shape. But Mr Kitayama insisted he will ensure Ayacko carries the day in Kuria. He claimed that the Kuria community was free to vote for a candidate of their choice. ”We want each of the candidates to feel free to hunt for votes here, but what is clear from my conscience is that Mr Ayacko is my candidate and he will win,’’ he said. OTHER CANDIDATES Other Kuria leaders who are backing Mr Ayacko are nominated MP Dennitah Ghati, former Migori County Executive Committee member Maneno Mwikwabe,  former parliamentary aspirant Rahab Robi and activist John Magaiwa. The seat fell vacant following the death of Ben Oluoch Okello, who succumbed to throat cancer in June this year. Other candidates for the race are Peter Jobando (Green Congress Party), Samwel Otieno (independent),  Dickson Ogolla (independent).   Mr Tuju says the decision was made 'in the interest of the Building Bridges Initiative'.