A weed with purple flowers. An anticipated initiation rite for boys. And a community deeply rooted in culture, but equally sharply divided. These are the strands that weave a narrative of omen and black magic through the fabric of a society torn between modernity and tradition. This is the story of “Setyoot” (scientific name Mimulopsis solmsii) and the Kispigis, the largest sub-tribe of the Kalenjin. But we wouldn't be here had “Setyoot” not decided to flower, by unfortunate happenstance, right at the cusp of a planned circumcision ceremony for boys that was slated for the coming school holidays. Now, it would seem that the subject — otherwise taboo in the community and only spoken in hushed tones only in the company of the initiated — is all people can talk about. Cultural pundits have weighed in on the issue, saying that the flowering of the plant portends bad omen for boys who will be circumcised this year. ELDERS DIVIDED Already, a section of the Kipsigis Council of Elders has warned against the rite of passage in the forthcoming school holidays because “Setyoot” had flowered in some parts of the South Rift. Led by Mr Edwin Kimetto, the elders said that the flowering would cause ill health manifested in shivering, general instability and death. “To our people, be warned that no circumcision will take place this year, because Setyoot has been sighted to have flowered in various areas. This plant is a bad omen and anyone who disregards it will face dire consequences,” said Mr Kimetto. But the Myoot Council of Elders, and the Church, find the directive by elders as alarmist because it is based on superstition which cannot be substantiated. “There is unnecessary fear being inflicted across Kalenjin land, especially by those who are desirous of getting the community back to superstitious traditional past,” African Gospel Church (AGC) head Bishop Robert Langat said. Mr Langat said the AGC central church council and bishops have not prohibited the circumcision. He asked all pastors not to issue directives to the contrary. Bishop (Rtd) Paul Leleito, who chairs the Myoot, asked the people to go ahead with their initiation plans. “There should be no cause for alarm, and the initiation rites should proceed as usual,” said Bishop (Rtd) Leleito. But the question is: What is so unsettling to the Kipsigis about this plant Setyoot? DRY SEASON According to Mr Godfrey Sang, a history researcher at Gapman Publications, the flowering of “Setyoot” signalled the start of the dry season which meant that circumcision, which was a food-intensive exercise, was suspended in that particular year. Food was not easy to come by in those days and the womenfolk had to put together grains of two seasons just to feed one set of initiates. When the plant flowered twice, the initiates of the year after the flowering of “Setyoot” were technically members of next age group. Kalenjin age groups were based on circumcision cohorts and each of the age-sets were called up after the last of the oldest members of that group had died. “There are seven age groups that are changed rotationally after fifteen to twenty years. The cycle is Maina, Chumo, Sawe, Kipkoimet (Korongoro), Kaplelach, Kimnyigei and finally Nyongi,” said Mr Sang. The older generation also believed that the flowers of the plant have poisonous pollen which could infect the initiates with certain conditions while healing from the knife-inflicted wounds away in the forest and bushes.  