President Uhuru Kenyatta has hit out at individuals already engaging in political talk, saying they should wait for the 2022 general election. President Kenyatta on Saturday called for politicians to desist from fuelling unnecessary tension as Kenyans want service delivery and development, not constant politicking. DEVELOPMENT He spoke at Uhuru Market in Nairobi County, where he joined Governor Mike Sonko, United Nations Environment Programme Executive Director Erik Solheim and UN Habitat Deputy Executive Director Victor Kisob for a cleanup. “My main aim is to uplift the lives of our people. We cannot achieve this if we engage in politics and are divided politically. The over 40 million Kenyans want services from those they elected. Let us wait for the five years to lapse to start politics,” he said. The president also urged political players to respect each other, emphasising that development cannot be divided along political lines, and appealing for them to unite and work with the public. “We will not feed on our parties but on development. We should respect each other as no development is delivered on party lines like ODM, Jubilee or Wiper. Let us work together as this is our country. We have nowhere to go to so let us pull together to help our people,” he said. WATER, MAIZE On the battle between Nairobi and Murang’a counties over water from Ndakaini Dam, President Kenyatta asked politicians to stop political games as water is a natural resource that belongs to everyone. “We should desist from politics of water. It is a natural resource that belongs to everyone so what we should be looking at is how we can share the resource,” said the Head of State. President Kenyatta also warned unscrupulous traders, who have not conformed to the government's directive to sell maize flour at Sh75, that action will be taken against them for exploiting Kenyans. Last month, Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri directed traders to sell a two kilogramme packet of the flour at Sh75, saying the price of maize had declined so that of flour also needed to. Mr Kenyatta said: “Prices of flour must go down in line with the decrease in the price of maize as we strive to provide sufficient and affordable food for our people. Action will be taken against traders exploiting the common mwananchi. They can do that anywhere else but not in Kenya." EARLIER WARNING On Thursday, while speaking during the Nairobi International Trade Fair, the president sternly warned Mr Kiunjuri over irregular payments to maize cartels through the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB). He noted that he will punish ministry officials if they fail to pay maize farmers who supplied the produce to the board, following accusations that the state agency had been making payments to traders and brokers, leaving no money for the farmers. “I promise you and I swear before God ... try that again and you’ll see what will happen to you. Sisi hatutaki mchezo tena (We don't want games),” he said. Maize farmers from the Rift valley have been complaining about unpaid dues running into billions of shillings, yet they made deliveries to NCPB depots. LOCAL SOURCING The Head of State assured that in the drive to achieve the Big Four agenda, especially concerning housing, the government will get materials from Jua Kali traders in order to create more employment for the youth. “Dirisha, milango na hizo vitu zingine tutachukua kwa watu wa Jua Kali hapa tu (We will source for housing materials from Jua Kali traders),” he said. The president further said the national government will continue working closely with Nairobi, through the Nairobi regeneration programme, to bring development to the capital. “I promised that the first roads to be upgraded would be in Eastlands and the work is already ongoing. We will be walking in every part of the county talking to the people to hear their problems,” said Mr Kenyatta. He asked Nairobi residents to make it their personal responsibility to keep the city clean even as they demand for services. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko urged city leaders to put politics aside and deliver what they promised the people. “We are working with the national government to improve Nairobi. We have upgraded various roads, markets and fire stations since I came into office. So let us put politics aside and deliver," he said.   Uhuru warned Kiunjuri that he will be in hot water if fraud happens at NCPB.