During the lecture on sexual offences in college, most of my male classmates could not stop giggling. They were tickled by the intimate details on the laws surrounding ‘penetration’. This was a criminal law class, where future lawyers were being equipped with the tools to help victims of sexual violence. The insensitivity was shocking but there is still a sense that patriarchy does not seem to take sexual violence towards women that seriously. A lot of nuances of sexual offences in Africa seem lost in the midst of cultural norms in customary law. With the rise in sexual violence, especially against girls and women, it is important to divorce misogyny from sexual abuse matters. GOLDEN BLUDGEON When in 2016 Justice Said Juma Chitembwe acquitted a man engaging in sexual acts with a minor, I was horrified. He decided the case on the basis that “the child appeared willing to have sex with the defendant and the frequency with which she visited the man indicated she was fully aware of her actions thus had to be treated as an adult”. The ruling was condemned internationally and went on to win Justice Chitembwe the Golden Bludgeon ‘award’ in Spain by Women’s Link Worldwide, beating 18 other cases to emerge the worst ruling for women’s rights in 2016. It remains the worst, moreso with the spike in sexual abuse against minors. The glaring issue with Justice Chitembwe’s decision in the case is his departure from the law. Regardless of the number of times the minor engaged in a sexual act with the offender, there was no justification to set a dangerous precedent that could put many other minors at risk. MENTAL ILLNESS The law on age of majority in Sexual Offences Act was enacted in order to offer protection to minors. The issue of consent in this regard cannot arise for a person as young as 13. The only time she ought to be considered an adult is when she reaches the age of majority, which is 18. Such a decision may not also have considered the risk vulnerable girls can be put to; for example, those with mental illness or other disabilities. The ruling did not take the issue of grooming into account either. A lot of minors end up being abused by adults who groom them from a young age in order to set them up for years of sexual abuse. There have been cases in northern England, where a group of young vulnerable girls from challenging backgrounds were plied with alcohol and drugs and taken advantage of by being passed around men. TV PERSONALITY Grooming of children is one issue that, perhaps, we have swept under the carpet but is a reality in many poor neighbourhoods. And we have to wake up to it. It can be through the use of intoxicants or unsolicited gifts. Even adult females have found themselves in the hands of sexual predators, as witnessed recently in the case involving American comedian Bill Cosby, who was recently convicted of such crimes. Cosby drugged young female fans and violated them sexually during his time as a television personality. Patriarchy seems to feel entitled to sexually abuse the female, as envisaged in the characters of the incels (involuntary celibates) in the recent past. These were a group of young men who felt the need to violate the right of women to ‘give consent’ by raping them if they turned down their advances. The formed the online movement to advance their warped idea. DISTURBING RULING The incels blamed the feministic agenda of empowerment for denying them the right to engage in sexual acts on their terms. When rebuffed, they used force. Gladly, their social media presence has since been erased. It was disturbing, therefore, to see a judge rule in favour of an abuser based on the patriarchal pre-disposed idea of entitlement. For centuries, the girl-child had no say in her sexuality or affairs and it was acceptable to marry and violate girls at a tender age. This culture has been found to disadvantage girls by interfering with their schooling and socio-economic advancement. Age of consent is important in order to create equal opportunities for both boys and girls; otherwise, the girl-child would always lag behind. Most importantly, it was brought in to protect young girls, in particular, from sexual abuse by adults. That’s why is worrying to see the law on sexual offences being reversed, least of all in a court of law! PREDATORS REGISTER Personal misogynistic views and considerations should never be allowed to occlude judgment in sexual offences cases. The law must be the guiding factor, unless there are legal fundamental reasons to depart from it. A change of attitude by men, especially within the criminal justice system, on sexual abuse would go a long way in tackling the problem and offer the much-needed protection to victims of sexual abuse and violence. Expediting investigations, lab tests and treatment would equally hasten justice for victims. What is required, above all, is a register of sex offenders to record details of sexual predators in order to save vulnerable children, girls and women from sexual abuse. Ms Guyo is a legal researcher. kdiguyo@gmail.com  