Article 34 of the Constitution seems to carry a specific application towards media companies or similar entities. It provides for media freedom and it requires that the government should not interfere with the platforms that carry news, information or debate through repressive measures such as onerous laws and procedures on licensing. It requires the State not to penalise anyone for the content of a broadcast or interfere with broadcasting in any manner and that broadcasting not be subject to political or commercial interests but be free. Unlike Article 33, which provides for the freedom of expression, Article 34 does not require the media to respect the reputation of others. By this distinction, therefore, we find wider latitude for criticism and debate without the limitation that our discussion should not offend someone’s good name. DOUBLE SENSE The interpretation that “media” in Article 34 applies to media companies is limiting. There is a double sense in which the word “media” is used in the Constitution: As a platform, for example, the broadcasting equipment, and as the entity that utilises that platform. By the online Cambridge Dictionary definition, a medium is a substance that something grows in, lives in or moves through. It is also a method or way of expressing something. A book is a medium of disseminating information. A bookshop is a medium — it is a place that disseminates information by sale. The fact that it sells does not take away that character — for the same reason that a book does not cease to be a medium because it is sold. If newspapers are sold, and they are media, then it is illogical to reject the classification of books as media. By extension, the online store of a bookshop is also a medium. REPUTATIONS Where does that leave the materials that educational institutions create? Are they forms of personal expression, subject to the reputations of people? Documentaries, blogs, videos and other forms of research made by educational institutions are also media. There is a presumption that the material produced by a school in its research — say a report or video on misappropriation of land — is created for public interest. In this context, the freedom of the media and the right to education speak to each other. The freedom to conduct research supports the right to develop mental faculties. It would be absurd if such videos and research so conducted should be subjected to respecting reputations. Public debate and educational research should be free in the widest sense, even if it means occasional injury to someone’s good name. LIBERTIES The implication of this wider interpretation is that a large section of what we have hitherto classified as personal expression will now fall under freedom of the media. It is not a constitutional overreach. It is an interpretation apparent in Article 34(1) — “freedom and independence of electronic, print and all other types of media is guaranteed”. The Constitution bids us to adopt an interpretation that gives greater development of the law and advances greater protection for fundamental liberties. As such, university blogs, bookshops and media companies are all included in Article 34 because they all fulfil a public interest important to the development of society. BANNING A book is blank paper fused with information. A broadcast is instruments that have met content. I do not see a difference between banning the sale of a book and switching off television networks. Both limit “media” in their different forms to the same goal: Silence the less liked. Fundamental freedoms do not exist for the sake of the powerful, said Lord Bingham. The powerful always take care of themselves. Fundamental freedoms exist for those we don’t like, for the views we detest, for the things we wish to remain unsaid. Mr Rosana is a legal assistant, Nation Media Group. rnyabuto@ke.nationmedia.com.  