Leaders across the political divide on Sunday condoled with Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka, following the death of his father. Mr Musyoka's father, Peter Musyoka Mairu, 94, died at the Nairobi Hospital on Sunday morning. The Wiper leader confirmed that his father, who had been ailing for a while, died while receiving treatment at Nairobi Hospital. President Uhuru Kenyatta said his prayers were with Mr Musyoka’s family during this moment of grief. COMFORTED MUSYOKA "My deepest condolences to you my brother Mr Musyoka, on the passing on of his father, Mzee Peter Musyoka Mairu. May God grant you grace for this period. Our prayers are with you, your family and friends" the president said in a statement. His fellow principals in the Opposition National Super Alliance Mr Raila Odinga, Mr Musalia Mudavadi and Mr Moses Wetangula also sent their messages of condolence to Mr Musyoka and his family. Deputy President William Ruto eulogised Mr Mairu as an elder who fought for democracy, human rights and free expression. "Deepest condolences to the family of Kalonzo Musyoka following the passing on of their father, Peter Musyoka Mairu. Mzee Mairu was a gentle, kind soul whose amiable disposition made him many friends. He fought for democracy, human rights and free expression. Rest In Peace," said the DP. Mr Odinga, the ODM party leader comforted Mr Musyoka saying he shared in his grief of losing his parent. TRYING MOMENT "Pole sana my brother following the passing on of your Father Mzee Peter Musyoka Mairu. We share in your grief. May God grant comfort to your family at this trying moment" Mr Odinga tweeted. Mr Musyoka lost his mother Malia Musyoka in 2014. Ford-Kenya party leader Moses Wetang’ula tweeted: “It is with deep shock and sadness that I have learnt the passing of the late Musyoka Mairu, father to former Vice President, H.E Kalonzo Musyoka. The late will be remembered for his iconic advice and relentless efforts on his quest to have a just society.” “His bravery, steadfastness, and personal sacrifice to see this country attain greater heights will forever be etched onto the minds of Kenyans who cherish democracy and cohesion,” he added. PRAYERS Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi also sent a message of condolence to the Wiper party leader. “My brother & colleague Hon Kalonzo Musyoka, my sincere condolences upon the passing on of your dear father Mzee Peter Musyoka Mairu. My thoughts and prayers are with you and your entire family as you walk this difficult path.”  