As slain Rongo University student Sharon Otieno is buried on Friday, it is beyond doubt that her fans on social media would miss her updates. Her Facebook wall was her social diary, and she kept her followers busy with her escapades at the Imperial Hotel. Sometimes when she felt low, the 26-year-old student would update them that someone was bothering her. On March 27, 2018, Ms Otieno posted to her friends that she was at the Kisumu Imperial Hotel, and that she had to relax a little since her day was a bit hectic. She then shared this photo of her seated at the hotel.   On March 25 this year, Ms Otieno shared photos of herself while at the pool side.   She wanted to know from her fans who would teach her how to swim, saying that she really wanted to swim but she feared drowning.   On March 23, 2018, she posted photos of herself inside a five-star hotel. Her status read: "I am in love with these pictures.” She can be seen happy at a dining table enjoying some meal."   On March 13, 2018, Ms Otieno posted on her Facebook wall: “Just have fun and forget about stress, life is meant to be enjoyed.”   As most of tens of other posts on her wall, Ms Otieno shared photos of herself inside a restaurant, enjoying a five-course meal.   In the pictures, Ms Otieno is seen with a plate of rice and chicken, a cup of tea, a piece of cake, some fruits and pudding.   A few weeks earlier, on January 18, 2018, Ms Otieno had posted her Facebook status as ‘Pesa otas hehe’, a post that has been shared 96 times on Facebook alone, and attracted 447 comments since her brutal murder and links to Migori Governor Okoth Obado came to light. On the morning of December 27, 2017, Ms Otieno invited her Facebook fans for breakfast, ‘Karibuni breakfast’ was her status that morning while at a high-end hotel.   On December 25, 2017, she had posted her status pictures from the same hotel, wishing her fans a merry Christmas. Again, the post was all about finger-licking food. Two weeks earlier, she had shared her status on Facebook, alluding that someone was out to ruin her reputation. “At times mimi huchoka na human beings. It's not right to ruin someone's reputation for no apparent reason, aki you mean you really say **** about someone mpaka uone tu umemharibia. You will be judged someday because nothing bad goes unpunished, good morning guys.”   Since she hit the headlines one-and-a-half months ago this status has been shared 313 times and attracted 513 comments. On December 10 last year, Ms Otieno posted that she was on a weekend mood. She posted a picture of her dressed in a simple light blue tracksuit, her hair neatly done ready to take on the weekend.   Five days earlier, she had updated her status on Facebook saying: “Life is what you make it.” On November 29, 2017, Ms Otieno felt like a poetic romantic, alluding to a popular song, Particula, by Major Lazer and DJ Maphorisa that also features artistes Nasty C, Ice Prince, Patoranking and Jidenna. Her status read: “I like a girl in particular, you in particular, I like your waist in particular…’ Then she posted a photo of herself in tight fitting leggings and a black fitting top, which dazzled her fans.   Her estranged husband and children were not part of her Facebook page. On social media, Ms Otieno was a carefree woman and her family seemed not to bother her much. The body of the seven months pregnant student was found in Kodera Forest in Homa Bay on Wednesday, September 5, 2018.   In September 21, 2018, police arrested Ms Otieno's boyfriend, who is the Migori Governor Okoth Obado. Mr Obado is facing two counts of murder, that of killing Ms Otieno and her unborn child. His two aides are also facing the same charges.   Migori governor and his two aides facing murder charges over death of woman and her unborn child.