Impala Saracens weathered a late charge from Strathmore Leos to triumph 20-18 and reach their third consecutive Impala Floodlit rugby tournament final on Saturday at the Impala Sports Club grounds. Tries from inside centre Paul Mutsami, left winger Billy Omondi and open-side flanker Elvis Oroko and Sammy Oliech's conversion and penalty catapulted the Sarries, who led 15-3 at the break, to the final. Two quick tries by Albert Obura and right winger Alex Maina in the last seven minutes fell short for John Mbai’s Leos even as scrum-half Gideon Makumi curled over a conversion and three penalties. “We had a great first half though the Leos defended well,” noted Impala coach Oscar Osir. “But we allowed the Leos to roar back in the second with poor execution in the rucks and set-pieces costing us.” Osir said his charges must improve on their set-pieces and rucks if they hope to win the final due next Saturday. Mbai decried missed chances in both halves with some poor decision making also costing his side a late victory. “We came close to scoring but lacked the final killer punch in our decision making,” said Mbai. Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) KCB beat Impala Saracens 18-17 to lift the Impala Floodlit title last year, which was a revenge sweet revenge for the bankers, who had lost to the 33-22 during the 2016 final. Makumi gave Strathmore an early 3-0 led from a penalty as they staged a solid defence to keep the marauding Sarries at bay for almost 30 minutes before capitulating to Mutsami’s try. Oliech converted as Impala led 7-3. Then Impala claimed a turnover from their 22 metres before Anthony Nyandigisi took a decisive break to offload to Omondi inside Strathmore’s 22m to score. Oliech’s attempted conversion scaled wide but his penalty went in to lead 15-3 at the break. A lovely drive ensued after scrum-half Samson Onsomu won a turnover before Oroko finished off the move.  The resilient Leos finally got their first try when Obura went for the drive behind the post from a ruck before Maina’s exploits to bring them closer but time was against them. Impala will now meet KCB in the final after the bankers beat Homeboyz 34-10 in the other semi-final. KCB were leading 6-0 at the break. Meanwhile, Mwamba and Kenya Harlequin will face-off in the Plate final. Mwamba stormed the Plate final after they beat Nondescripts 25-3 while Quins outclassed Nakuru 22-13 all in the semis. Mean Machine from the University of Nairobi beat Catholic University Monks 33-22 to reach the Varsities Championship final.  