Hosts Mean Machine have made three changes to their squad ahead of their clash with Universities Sevens champions Blak Blad in the Varsity League final on Saturday at the University of Nairobi grounds. Cornell Omondi replaces Ben Kanyi at second-row in the team, while Festus Shihasi comes in for Bob Otieno at the centre as Kanyi and Otieno move to the bench. Daniel Odera will make his debut as open-side flanker for Machine, who needed a thrilling penalty shootout to silence hosts Egerton University 3-1 after the two teams tied 11-11 in regulation time in the semi-finals at the Egerton University grounds last Saturday. “We know what is at stake, with Blak Blad setting on their core team for the derby,” Mean Machine skipper Shadon Munoko said Friday. “We are at home and we rarely lose here. Let Blak Blad know that they are coming here for a bruising battle.” Blak Blad led 15-7 at the break before blowing away Catholic University of East Africa Monks 44-7 in the other semi-final to set up the classy varsity derby. Blak Blad coach Michael “Tank” Otieno has said meetings between the two teams have always produced fireworks, with a lot at stake. “Our meetings have always been close. Machine always raise their game to another level when facing us and I’m sure they would like to take home something after we won Varsities Sevens title,” said Otieno. “I know Mean Machine are out for revenge but we are well prepared.” Munoko said that the league has been a good build-up for his team, having won the KRU Championships to gain promotion to Kenya Cup next season. Egerton and Monks will now battle in the play-off starting 12pm before the final at 2pm. Machine are chasing a double with their other team out to stop United States International University - Africa in the Varsities final of the Impala Floodlit. Loose-forward Ian Obukwa will lead Blak Blad that has Lionel Ajelit at fly-half and Kenya Sevens trialist Brian Wahinya at scrum-half. Emmanuel Omae and Stomy Odhiambo will operate from the midfield while Achadius Kwese and Ryan Ario on the wings.   KCB have also brought in Jacob Ojee for Stafford Abeka.