Day two in Nairobi took me back in time. It’s been many years since I presented a breakfast show on CNN International. Back in those days I would get up at around 3.30am, so there was barely any point going to bed. This morning I joined the energetic Maqbul Mohammed in his radio studio. It was a free-ranging discussion that took in everything from my upbringing in Liverpool, through to Kenya’s economic, social and cultural challenges, via Brexit and even a blast of Gloria Gaynor. It was also an invigorating, eclectic wake-up, and showed that no topic is off-limits here in ‘open and liberal’ Nairobi. The same was true an hour later, when I joined outspoken morning host Shaffie Weru and his colleague Maina Kageni for another free-wheeling half hour or so on the airwaves. The morning was a reminder of the immense skill that it takes to deliver great radio, and it was hugely enjoyable to spend it in the company of such talented professionals. Shaffie joined us for the afternoon, too. We visited CJ’s on Koinange Street, where we got down to a serious talk for my show, Quest’s World of Wonder. You’ll be able to see more of our chat in a few weeks’ time; but suffice to say it was another frank exchange. I have so appreciated the opportunity to take on tough topics here in Kenya – it isn’t the case everywhere in the world, and it’s a positive sign. Being able to say what you want, to tackle taboos and confront issues is so important for a country. Put simply, it is good for people, and good for business. The more open, the better; I hope Kenya remains on that trajectory. At CJ’s I also noticed signs above the tills carrying the number needed to pay with M-Pesa. What a wonder that is, and one that speaks to the innovation inherent in the economy here. When you see hawkers on the street taking payments in M-Pesa, it truly is a remarkable thing. There was, however, one constant that has remained during my visit, and today was no exception. The traffic!   I have to admit, I wasn’t expecting this ... I’m more than impressed.